title,abstract
"Cancer statistics in China: Epidemiology, risk factors, and prevention.","Cancer is a leading cause of death in China, and its epidemiological profile has shifted markedly in recent years. This review summarizes contemporary trends in cancer incidence and mortality, delineates the major modifiable risk factors, and highlights recent national efforts to ease the burden of cancer. In 2022, China recorded 4.8 million new cancer cases (crude rate: 341.7 per 100,000) and 2.5 million cancer deaths (182.3 per 100,000). Lung, colorectal, thyroid, liver, stomach, and female breast cancers accounted for 65% of all diagnoses, while lung, liver, stomach, colorectal, and esophageal cancers constituted 67.5% of cancer deaths. Notable shifts in sex-specific rankings underscored the rising mortality burden of prostate, female breast, and cervical cancers. China has made measurable progress in cancer control. Between 2000 and 2018, the age-standardized mortality rate for all cancers declined by approximately 1.3% annually, and the age-standardized 5-year relative survival improved from 30.9% in 2003-2005 to 43.7% in 2019-2021. According to Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2023, nearly half of cancer deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were attributable to modifiable risk factors such as tobacco, air pollution, high alcohol use, dietary risks, and unsafe sex. In response, the government has implemented a suite of prevention-oriented policies, including expansion of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination, strengthened tobacco control, sustained air pollution reduction, enhanced health education, and broadened cancer screening coverage. Collectively, these initiatives demonstrate a sustained national commitment to reducing the cancer burden."
Bronchoalveolar Lavage as a Diagnostic Window into Human Exposure to Microplastics and Associated Lung Changes.,"Microplastics are emerging airborne pollutants increasingly implicated in respiratory health risks. Although ingestion has been widely studied, inhalation of microplastics and their potential pulmonary impact remain underexplored. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) provides a minimally invasive diagnostic technique for detecting inhaled particles and assessing associated inflammatory changes. This cross-sectional study was conducted among 60 adult patients undergoing diagnostic bronchoscopy for non-infective pulmonary complaints. BAL fluid was collected and filtered to detect microplastics using polarized light microscopy and Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Cytological examination and cytokine analysis (IL-6, TNF-α) were also performed. Data were statistically analyzed using SPSS v25, with significance set at  Microplastics were detected in 70% of BAL samples, with polyethylene and polypropylene being the most common types. The mean microplastic count was 6.4 ± 3.1 particles per 100 mL BALF. Individuals with detectable microplastics showed significantly higher macrophage (65.4% vs. 58.6%,  Bronchoalveolar lavage is a valuable tool for detecting pulmonary microplastic exposure and related inflammatory changes. These findings underscore the potential health risks posed by airborne microplastics and support the need for environmental and occupational health interventions."
Looking through the particles: a narrative review of air pollution and lung cancer.,"Air pollution, particularly fine particulate matter ≤2.5 µm (PM A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed and Scopus using search terms related to PM PM There has been an increased incidence of lung cancer in patients who have never smoked and can be associated with the increase in air pollution, particularly PM"
IMPACT OF PM,"Wildfire-related air pollution represents an escalating health threat in the Brazilian Amazon, where fine particulate matter (PM"
Physical exercise mitigates the adverse effects of PM,"Physical exercise in polluted air involves a significant trade-off. However, the interaction effects and underlying mechanisms between PM"
Prior acute ozone injury dampens Th2 responses to subsequent repetitive ozone exposures in mice.,Ground-level ozone (O 
Epigenome-wide association study of household air pollution exposure in an area with high lung cancer incidence.,"Lung cancer incidence among never-smoking women in Xuanwei, China, is among the highest worldwide and is primarily attributed to household air pollution (HAP) from smoky (bituminous) coal combustion, with early-life exposure identified as playing a critical role. We conducted epigenome-wide DNA methylation (DNAm) analyses of HAP exposure and its polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) constituents across exposure windows. Leukocyte DNAm was measured in 106 never-smoking women, including 23 individuals with repeated measurements. Cooking fuel use and stove type was obtained through questionnaire, and comprehensive personal and environmental air monitoring was conducted. Validated exposure models estimated 43 HAP constituents, predominantly PAHs, across childhood, current, and cumulative exposure windows, and PAH clusters were derived via hierarchical clustering. Generalized estimating equations were used to identify CpG sites associated with HAP exposure and PAH clusters, including 5-methylchrysene, a methylated PAH previously linked to lung cancer. We identified several differentially methylated CpG sites, predominantly hypomethylated with higher HAP exposure. Although some DNAm signatures overlapped with those observed in smoking, the majority were distinct. Notably, higher current exposure to 5-methylchrysene was significantly associated with hypomethylation at cg05575921 (AHRR; p = 2.05x10"
"Global, regional, and national burden of chronic respiratory diseases and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, 1990-2023: a Global Burden of Disease study.","Chronic respiratory diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, pneumoconiosis, interstitial lung disease (ILD) and pulmonary sarcoidosis, are major global causes of mortality and morbidity. Although the COVID-19 pandemic has influenced acute respiratory health, its impact on chronic respiratory conditions remains unclear. We estimated the global, regional and national burden of chronic respiratory diseases from 1990 to 2023, including risk factors, and evaluated how these burdens have shifted during the COVID-19 pandemic using the Global Burden of Disease Study 2023. In 2023, chronic respiratory diseases accounted for 569.2 million (95% uncertainty interval (UI), 508.8-639.8) cases and 4.2 million (3.6-5.1) deaths. The age-standardized death rate declined by 25.7% globally from 1990 to 2023 despite an increase in ILD and pulmonary sarcoidosis. Mortality declined in younger males, especially for asthma, whereas older adults experienced a rise in ILD and pulmonary sarcoidosis. Smoking was the primary risk factor for COPD, whereas high body mass index and silica exposure were key risk factors for asthma and pneumoconiosis. During the pandemic, the incidence of chronic respiratory diseases increased modestly, but the decline in mortality rates became more pronounced, highlighting the need for sustained global attention and action to address their long-term burden."
"Mapping three decades of air pollution-lung cancer research: trends, hotspots, and networks (1990-2025).","The relationship between air pollution and lung cancer has attracted considerable attention from researchers worldwide. To systematically assess the scholarly landscape and pinpoint research fronts, this study employs bibliometric analysis to delineate global trends, collaborative networks, and key publications within this field. Publications from 1990 to 2025 were extracted from Web of Science Core Collection and Scopus databases. Bibliometric tools including VOSViewer, Citespace, and Bibliometrix R were used to examine trends, key contributors, research themes, and prominent journals. Among 4,238 publications, citation rates rose significantly. China produced the most publications, with leading institutions such as Harvard University and the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Key researchers included Lan Q, Rothman N, and Vermeulen R. Major journals were Environmental Health Perspectives and Atmospheric Environment. Frequently used keywords like ""Lung Cancer"" and ""Particulate Matter"" indicate core themes, while emerging terms such as ""Covid-19"" and ""Machine Learning"" reflect evolving interests. Fine particulate matter is an established environmental risk factor for lung cancer, and research on polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and asbestos remains active. The field has shifted from exposure assessment to mechanistic investigations focusing on oxidative stress, gene expression, and machine learning applications, defining key future research directions."
Effects of Air Pollution Exposure and the MUC5B rs35705950 Variant on Interstitial Lung Disease Risk in Patients With Rheumatoid Arthritis.,"Rheumatoid arthritis-associated interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis share common risk factors, including the MUC5B promoter variant (rs35705950). We examined the contribution of air pollutants to ILD risk in an RA population and assessed the modifying effect of genetic susceptibility. This study included patients with RA who had undergone chest HRCT. MUC5B status was collected when available. Exposure levels to NO We included 594 patients with RA (mean age: 58 ± 12 years, 71% women, 44% current or ex-smokers), of whom 227 (38%) had ILD and 292 patients were genotyped for MUC5B rs35705950. Increased long-term exposure to NO Long-term exposure to air pollution is an independent risk factor for RA-ILD and its effect may be modified according to MUC5B rs35705950 genotype."
Risk of death from bladder cancer in relation to long-term exposure to fine particulate air pollution in Taiwan.,The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has classified fine particulate matter (PM
Google Trends as a health sentinel. ALERT study: Analyzing Symptoms Perceptions Related To Environmental pollution.,"The relationship between environmental pollution and human health is well-documented, and exposure has been linked to an increased risk of respiratory and psychological diseases. In our clinical practice, a trend of self-medication and self-diagnosis has emerged, defined as independent web searches for self-reported symptoms aimed at obtaining a diagnosis and related treatment in the absence of medical advice. This study aims to investigate the relationship between air pollution and public health, focusing on the impact of particulate matter (PM 2.5, PM 10), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), ozone (O3), and other pollutants on respiratory and mental health, and their relationship with web searches for health-related topics. The study compares search trends for specific terms (e.g., cough, dyspnea, asthma, etc.), obtained using Google Trends, a tool for assessing public interest in health-related issues, with air main pollutants concentrations collected over the same period in 2024 in Genoa, Liguria region. Correlation between searches for cough and levels of PM 2.5, O3, benzene, and NO2 was established, while depression also showed a connection to PM 2.5 and benzene. These findings underscore the potential of Google Trends as a valuable resource for epidemiological surveillance. The study highlights the necessity for healthcare systems to adapt to the implications of air quality on health outcomes. It emphasizes the need for innovative approaches, including real-time tracking of air pollution and its health impacts, to enhance patient care and inform clinical practice. The integration of technology and data analytics in healthcare is proposed as a forward-looking strategy to improve therapeutic adherence and patient management in the context of environmental health challenges."
Effects of inflammatory markers and sleep quality in stroke patients by reducing residential PM,"To assess the health impacts of a home intervention involving protective window screens and air purifiers on stroke patients in typical residential buildings in southern Taiwan. Chronic ischemic stroke patients were recruited from hospitals in southern Taiwan. A crossover study design was used, with home interventions consisting of protective window screens alone and protective window screens combined with air purifiers. Environmental monitoring indicators (indoor and outdoor PM Eleven cases (male:female = 9:2) were completed. The proportion of time with indoor PM Residential installation of protective window screens reduced indoor PM2.5, improved air quality, and positively influenced inflammatory markers and sleep in stroke patients in this case-crossover study. Further research is recommended to investigate its practical implementation and effectiveness in real-world residential settings."
Ambient air pollution and survival in SCLC/LCNEC: Analysis of a single centre retrospective cohort.,"Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung (LCNEC) are the deadliest forms of lung cancer with dismal prognosis. Recent evidence suggests that, beyond cigarette smoke, air pollution can have a role in the pathogenesis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and is associated with poorer survival. However, whether air pollutants exposure could affect survival outcomes in SCLC/LCNEC is unknown. We retrospectively analysed data from SCLC/LCNEC cases observed in the province of Brescia province Brescia between 2017 and 2021. Air pollutants mean concentrations were calculated during the same timeframe and the Brescia province was divided in six subareas dichotomized into lightly and heavily polluted areas based on the mean PM We observed 221 cases of SCLC/LCNEC, accounting for about 18 % of new lung cancer cases. Residency in heavily polluted areas (HR 1.51, p = 0.03) and extensive stage disease at diagnosis (HR 2.47, p = 0.0001) emerged as independent factors for poorer survival. Exploratory analyses showed an association between the distribution of SCLC/LCNEC cases and higher PM These results indicate that long-term exposure to high levels of PM"
The Prevalence of Lung Carcinoma Among the Population in Bulgaria and Its Association with Radon Exposure in Residential Buildings.,"Lung carcinoma remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, with smoking as the primary risk factor and radon exposure as the second, and the first among non-smokers. The combined effect of tobacco smoke and indoor radon increases disease risk up to 2.5 times, emphasizing the need for prevention and environmental risk assessment. This study analyzed the incidence of lung carcinoma in Bulgaria during 2013-2022 and examined its association with indoor radon exposure across different regions. Annual data were obtained from the National Statistical Institute and the National Survey of Indoor Radon Concentrations in Residential Buildings (2015-2016). The average annual incidence was 43.5 per 100,000 population, showing a 3.4% annual decline, while the average prevalence was 131.7 per 100,000, decreasing by 1.4% per year. Considerable interregional variation was observed, with incidence ranging from 25.5 to 62.4 per 100,000. A moderate positive correlation was found between lung carcinoma incidence and mean indoor radon concentration, and a stronger to very strong correlation with the proportion of dwellings exceeding 300 Bq/m These findings indicate a positive association between residential radon exposure and lung cancer morbidity and support maintaining the WHO-recommended reference level of 200 Bq/m"
Molecular interactions and dynamics of microplastics in indoor dust with lung-inflammatory receptors: A study in academic settings.,"Airborne microplastics (MPs) are prevalent indoors, and due to their low aerodynamic diameter, they can be inhaled, posing potential health risks. Although the toxic effects of airborne MPs have been explored using in vivo and in vitro models, the interactions between MPs and cellular receptors remain understudied. In this research, dust samples from a confined space within an academic setting were investigated for microplastics (MPs) and their abundance. Further, the most prevalent microplastics were used to study receptor binding and competition interaction studies using the In-Silico method against natural agonists and antagonists of major inflammatory receptors, including the human platelet-activating factor receptor (PAFR), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 1 (CXCR1), β2-adrenergic receptor (β2-AR), and toll-like receptor 2 (TLR-2). Results revealed that polyester (PE) was the predominant polymer, accounting for 23.96 % of the samples. Analysis indicated that a monomer of PET, Ethylene Terephthalate (ET), exhibited a high binding affinity of -6.5 kcal/mol with the PAFR receptor. Additionally, the molecular dynamics and protein-ligand interaction study, which involves hydrogen bonding, explains the differential binding effect of ET and the control compound with the targeted receptor. The complex was formed between the ET and the receptors of β2-AR, CXCR1, and TLR-2, with a maximum of seven and a minimum of one hydrogen bond throughout the simulation. This research lays a foundation for understanding the potential health implications of MPs in confined office spaces, underscoring the need for further in vivo and in vitro examinations."
Health-economic impact of implementing continuous vital sign monitoring in post-surgical patients in five European countries.,"Hospitals, in particular intensive care units (ICUs), account for a large proportion of healthcare costs and environmental burden. Preventing unexpected patient transfer to ICU  A health-economic, decision-tree model was developed to compare CVSM versus intermittent monitoring for costs, resources, and environmental consequences up to 30 days after hospital discharge for a hypothetical, 100-patient cohort. Hospital data from the UK were used to populate the initial country model, while data were extracted from the literature for Netherlands, Germany, Spain, and France. Key outcomes were costs (in 2024 currency), days in hospital, and environmental impact (kg of CO For 100 patients, the cost savings with use of CVSM ranged from -€111,381 (95% CrI = -35,164; -159,176) in the Netherlands to -€22,745 (95% CrI = -7,656; -44,134) in France. In no country did the range of the 95% CrI cross zero, indicating significant cost savings with CVSM. Cost savings mainly resulted from reductions of ICU days, which ranged from -25 (95% CrI = 8; -43) in Germany to -9 (95% CrI = -1; -28) in France. Changes in ICU days were not always significant. On average, 3,866 kg of CO Published data was limited and data was proxied across countries when unavailable. CVSM is expected to be a cost-saving, sustainable solution for most hospitals of the countries included. Following surgery, it is important to notice any new health problems as soon as they begin, so that they can be treated quickly. If a patient gets heart problems or is getting worse and at risk of a heart attack, and they do not get immediate treatment, they may have to stay longer in the hospital. Long hospital stays are expensive and impact the environment by increasing air pollution and trash. Usually, nurses check on patients several times every day, measuring heart rate, breathing rate, and other vital signs. Continuous vital sign monitoring (CVSM) technology allows healthcare professionals to ongoingly measure patients’ vital signs, without a gap lasting for hours between measurements. This can contribute to detecting patient worsening ahead of time and preventing health problems. This study calculated how CVSM can support hospitals in five European countries. New data were collected from British hospitals. Data for other countries were found in published scientific articles. The data were used to estimate how CVSM changes how long patients stay in the hospital and in intensive care, how much money treating the patients cost, and the environmental effect. Using CVSM saves money and reduces environmental burden in each country, but by different amounts. CVSM would allow 100 patients to overall spend 9 fewer days in the intensive care unit in France, and 25 fewer days in the intensive care unit in Germany. Per 100 patients, CVSM would save €22,745 in France and €111,381 in the Netherlands."
Gut-lung axis in allergic rhinitis: microbial dysbiosis and therapeutic strategies.,"Allergic rhinitis (AR) affects an estimated 10%-30% of people worldwide and places a significant burden on both health and healthcare systems. Recent research suggests that imbalances in the gut microbiota may contribute to the development of AR by disrupting immune regulation along the gut-lung axis. However, these insights have yet to be fully translated into clinical practice. We performed a systematic review of studies published between 2010 and 2025, including clinical research, animal experiments, and multi-omics analyses, retrieved from PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, Cochrane, CNKI, and Wanfang databases. The review aimed to evaluate immune mechanisms mediated by the gut microbiota and assess microbiota-targeted interventions in AR. Patients with AR consistently show reduced fecal butyrate levels, with several studies reporting significant declines, alongside elevated serum IgE concentrations. These changes are closely linked to gut dysbiosis, characterized by reduced abundance of  Gut dysbiosis contributes to the development of AR by disrupting immune-metabolic pathways along the gut-lung axis. Microbiota-targeted interventions hold promise for both the prevention and management of AR, especially in pediatric populations. To achieve long-term impact, public health strategies that combine dietary modifications with measures to reduce air pollution are urgently needed."
Proteomic signatures of smoking and their associations with risk of incident diseases and mortality in diverse populations.,"Smoking is the most important behavioural determinant of morbidity and mortality. Using machine learning on plasma levels of 2,917 proteins in the UK Biobank (n = 43,914), we develop a proteomic Smoking Index (pSIN) comprising 51 proteins that accurately distinguish current from never smokers (AUC = 0.95; 95% CI 0.94-0.95). Validation in the China Kadoorie Biobank (n = 3,977) shows similar accuracy (AUC = 0.91; 95% CI 0.89-0.92). pSIN is significantly associated with the risk of all-cause mortality and 18 major chronic diseases, including cardiovascular, renal, pulmonary, neurodegenerative, and cancer outcomes. Among current and former smokers, pSIN predicts death and 11 diseases independently of self-reported smoking history and lifestyle factors. Genome-wide analysis identifies 125 genes (e.g., ALPP, CST5, IL12B) associated with pSIN, while exposome analysis highlights maternal smoking, diet, physical activity, and air pollution as key modifiers. Notably, pSIN tracks recovery among former smokers and identifies those whose disease risks remain comparable to current smokers. These findings demonstrate that plasma proteomics effectively capture the biological imprint of smoking and predict smoking-related morbidity and mortality, offering a more nuanced, molecularly grounded assessment of individual variation in biological response to smoking."
Air pollution and lung cancer in India: an escalating public health crisis.,
The impact of environmental exposures on DNA methylation in the EXPANSE project.,"Living in an urban environment exposes the population to a mix of environmental and social factors, known as the Urban Exposome, that can influence health via changes in DNA methylation. We hypothesised that linking urban exposures with epigenome-wide DNA methylation in blood can reveal impacts across the lifespan. In the EXPANSE project, we conducted an inverse variance-weighted meta-analysis of epigenome-wide association studies of seven European cohorts. Urban exposures were estimated at participants' home addresses and included air pollution (PM2.5, NO DNA methylation was measured in blood samples from 1778 children (4-10 years), 878 adolescents (16 years), and 5975 adults (18-87 years). PM2.5, NO Urban environmental factors induce DNA methylation changes across life stages, with stronger associations in young children and adults. We observed a distinct contrast in the methylation changes associated with greenness compared to other urban environmental factors. However, disentangling exposure-specific methylome signatures remains a challenge. This work was supported by the EXPANSE project, funded by the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 874627."
Greater ambient air pollution exposure is associated with worse respiratory symptoms in men and women with HIV and chronic lung disease: a cohort study.,"COPD and impairment in diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO) are common comorbidities in people with HIV (PWH). HIV may increase susceptibility to inhaled toxins including air pollution. In PWH and people without HIV (PWoH), we investigated whether air pollution exposure was associated with within-group differences in lung function or respiratory symptoms, and whether these associations differed by HIV serostatus or the presence of underlying lung disease. We analyzed cross-sectional data from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS) and the Women’s Interagency HIV Study (WIHS), including participants with pulmonary function tests and accompanying standardized respiratory questionnaires in 2017–2020. The participants were linked to fine particulate matter (PM 338 MACS participants and 1073 WIHS participants were included. Overall, there were no significant associations between pollution exposures and either lung function or respiratory symptoms. In PWH with COPD, 1 µg/m PM The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12931-025-03398-0."
"Association between weather, air quality and asthma-related emergency department visits: a retrospective time-series study in Singapore.","To evaluate the association between asthma-related emergency department (ED) visits and weather, air quality, monsoons, haze and cultural festivals in Singapore. Retrospective cohort study. A public healthcare cluster that covers 20% of the nation's adult asthma population. 2617 adult patients accounting for 5337 asthma ED visits between 2016 and 2024. Temperature, rainfall, wet bulb temperature (WBT), wind speed and Pollution Standards Index (PSI) were correlated with asthma ED counts at 0-7 day lags. Associations between ED visits and monsoons, transboundary haze and cultural festivals were evaluated using one-way analysis of variance. Weekly seasonal ARIMA models with exogenous regressors were fitted, incorporating PSI as a covariate and adjusting for demographic, clinical and socioeconomic factors. Asthma ED visits were positively correlated with PSI (lag 0: r=0.142; 95% CI 0.107 to 0.178) and inversely correlated with rainfall (lag 3: r=-0.062; 95% CI -0.099 to -0.026) and WBT (lag 1: r=-0.067; 95% CI -0.104 to -0.031). Wind speed (lag 2: r=-0.049; 95% CI -0.086 to -0.013) and ambient temperature (lag 6: r=-0.045; 95% CI -0.081 to -0.008) showed weaker inverse associations. Mean PSI was higher during haze (82.67 vs 51.46, p<0.001) and festival periods (53.42 vs 51.57, p=0.001). Mean ED visits fell across successive haze events (2.60 in 2016, 2.36 in 2019, 1.46 in 2023) but peaked during the Northeast monsoons despite lower PSI, indicating weather influences beyond ambient pollution. PSI-ED association peaked on the same day of exposure but was no longer significant after adjusting for demographic and clinical factors. Pollution-linked festivals, transboundary haze and the Northeast monsoon were associated with increased asthma ED visits."
Acrylonitrile exposure incurs lung function decline: Insights from lifestyle intervention and mechanistic pathway in an urban prospective cohort.,"Acrylonitrile (AN), a prevalent Urban Air Toxic Pollutant, has drawn growing worldwide attention due to its alarming health threat. Evidence regarding the respiratory effect of AN exposure and its interaction with lifestyle in the general population remains limited, and the underlying mechanisms are largely unexplored. In this urban population-based prospective cohort study (baseline: 2011-2012; two follow-ups: 2014-2015 and 2017-2018), urinary AN metabolite N-Acetyl-S-(2-cyanoethyl)-L-cysteine (CYMA) and lung function were repeatedly measured for 6236 observations of 3515 participants. We utilized linear mixed models to evaluate the cross-sectional and longitudinal relationships between CYMA and lung function. Interaction plots were depicted to estimate the interaction of CYMA with healthy lifestyle score (HLS). Biomarkers of inflammation (plasma transforming growth factor-β [TGF-β], C-reactive protein, and club cell secretory protein) and oxidative damage to DNA (urinary 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine [8-OHdG]), lipid (urinary 8-iso-prostaglandin-F Cross-sectionally, each one-unit increase in log Daily life exposure to AN was associated with lung function decline. Mitigating AN pollution, promoting healthy lifestyles, and targeting fibro-inflammation, oxidative DNA damage, and lipid peroxidation pathways could be effective strategies to safeguard the public respiratory health."
"Global burden of lower respiratory infections and aetiologies, 1990-2023: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2023.","Lower respiratory infections (LRIs) remain the world's leading infectious cause of death. This analysis from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2023 provides global, regional, and national estimates of LRI incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), with attribution to 26 pathogens, including 11 newly modelled pathogens, across 204 countries and territories from 1990 to 2023. With new data and revised modelling techniques, these estimates serve as an update and expansion to GBD 2021. Through these estimates, we also aimed to assess progress towards the 2025 Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) target for pneumonia mortality in children younger than 5 years. Mortality from LRIs, defined as physician-diagnosed pneumonia or bronchiolitis, was estimated using the Cause of Death Ensemble model with data from vital registration, verbal autopsy, surveillance, and minimally invasive tissue sampling. The Bayesian meta-regression tool DisMod-MR 2.1 was used to model overall morbidity due to LRIs. DALYs were calculated as the sum of years of life lost (YLLs) and years lived with disability (YLDs) for all locations, years, age groups, and sexes. We modelled pathogen-specific case-fatality ratios (CFRs) for each age group and location using splined binomial regression to create internally consistent estimates of incidence and mortality proportions attributable to viral, fungal, parasitic, and bacterial pathogens. Progress was assessed towards the GAPPD target of less than three deaths from pneumonia per 1000 livebirths, which is roughly equivalent to a mortality rate of less than 60 deaths per 100 000 children younger than 5 years. In 2023, LRIs were responsible for 2·50 million (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 2·24-2·81) deaths and 98·7 million (87·7-112) DALYs, with children younger than 5 years and adults aged 70 years and older carrying the highest burden. LRI mortality in children younger than 5 years fell by 33·4% (10·4-47·4) since 2010, with a global mortality rate of 94·8 (75·6-116·4) per 100 000 person-years in 2023. Among adults aged 70 years and older, the burden remained substantial with only marginal declines since 2010. A mortality rate of less than 60 deaths per 100 000 for children younger than 5 years was met by 129 of the 204 modelled countries in 2023. At a super-regional level, sub-Saharan Africa had an aggregate mortality rate in children younger than 5 years (hereafter referred to as under-5 mortality rate) furthest from the GAPPD target. Streptococcus pneumoniae continued to account for the largest number of LRI deaths globally (634 000 [95% UI 565 000-721 000] deaths or 25·3% [24·5-26·1] of all LRI deaths), followed by Staphylococcus aureus (271 000 [243 000-298 000] deaths or 10·9% [10·3-11·3]), and Klebsiella pneumoniae (228 000 [204 000-261 000] deaths or 9·1% [8·8-9·5]). Among pathogens newly modelled in this study, non-tuberculous mycobacteria (responsible for 177 000 [95% UI 155 000-201 000] deaths) and Aspergillus spp (responsible for 67 800 [59 900-75 900] deaths) emerged as important contributors. Altogether, the 11 newly modelled pathogens accounted for approximately 22% of LRI deaths. This comprehensive analysis underscores both the gains achieved through vaccination and the challenges that remain in controlling the LRI burden globally. Furthermore, it demonstrates persistent disparities in disease burden, with the highest mortality rates concentrated in countries in sub-Saharan Africa. Globally, as well as in these high-burden locations, the under-5 LRI mortality rate remains well above the GAPPD target. Progress towards this target requires equitable access to vaccines and preventive therapies-including newer interventions such as respiratory syncytial virus monoclonal antibodies-and health systems capable of early diagnosis and treatment. Expanding surveillance of emerging pathogens, strengthening adult immunisation programmes, and combating vaccine hesitancy are also crucial. As the global population ages, the dual challenge of sustaining gains in child survival while addressing the rising vulnerability in older adults will shape future pneumonia control strategies. Gates Foundation."
Characterization of indoor particulate matter by home heating fuel type in rural New Hampshire homes.,"Over six million Americans rely on solid fuels for residential heating, which can result in high concentrations of fine and ultrafine particulate matter (PM). Little is known on the characteristics of indoor PM in rural homes, including lung deposited surface area (LDSA) concentration and metals composition, and whether these characteristics may vary by fuel type. Homes using oil, cordwood, or pellet were recruited into the study. Indoor air quality assessment over 48 hours included PM Ten homes completed the study- three used primary oil-fueled furnaces/boilers, four used primarily cordwood, and three used pellet fuel. Activity logs and real time measurements highlighted elevated indoor pollution events such as loading wood stoves and cooking. Maximum indoor air particle number concentrations measured were similar across fuel types, though total average particle concentrations, maximum mass, and LDSA concentrations were highly variable. For individual elements Ca, K, Cu, Cd, and Pb, there was a trend of higher concentrations in cordwood heated home, followed by pellet, and then oil heat. Exposure characteristics and elemental composition of fine and ultrafine particles in rural homes vary by heating fuel type. Due to the contributions from other indoor activities to ultrafine PM, we suggest trace elements might be a better marker of woodsmoke exposure compared to other particle metrics."
EAACI Guidelines on the Importance of Green Space in Urban Environments for Allergy and Asthma Prevention.,"The allergy and asthma epidemic in urban societies following World War II is mostly caused by changes in the environment, diet and lifestyle. Disconnection of urban populations from the wider environment has reduced the protective factors building up immunological resilience. The European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI) guidelines on greenness impact on allergy and asthma follow the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach and provide eight recommendations encouraging greenness exposure to support immune health. Controlled follow-up studies are still scarce, and the strength of evidence is generally low or moderate at best. For primary prevention of allergy and asthma, most of the evidence indicates beneficial effects. Exposure is also useful for secondary prevention. Asthma patients may feel better and need less medication by combining green space exposure with physical activity. During the high-pollen season, effective seasonal medication is necessary for patients with pollen allergy. In urban planning, implementing appropriate green infrastructure and easy access to green space promotes immune health and reduces risks of air pollution and heatwaves. These EAACI guidelines are the first recommendations highlighting the importance of urban green spaces on immune health and call for prioritising innovative research in this field."
Impact of air pollution and population vulnerability on cancer mortality in the United States: A scoping review.,"Ambient air pollution is an important contributor to cancer risk. While previous studies have examined the impact of air pollution on cancer mortality, they have largely overlooked how population vulnerability indicators, such as socioeconomic status, interact with air pollution to influence cancer mortality across cancer types. This review aimed to address this gap by systematically reviewing these effect modifications and providing insights to inform efforts aimed at reducing differential health burdens. We searched PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Web of Science for studies conducted in the U.S. published between January 1, 1994, and January 27, 2024. Covidence was used to manage study selection and data extraction, including study design, air pollutants, population vulnerability indicators (e.g., urbanicity, proximity to pollution, socioeconomic status, race/ethnicity), exposure assessment methods, cancer types, and findings. We identified 15 articles and found that the associations between air pollution and cancer mortality varied by urbanicity and socioeconomic status. A slight majority of studies reported stronger associations in less urbanized populations and lower-SES groups. Black individuals experienced higher cancer mortality risks from air pollution than Whites, while findings for Hispanics and Asians were inconsistent. Air pollution exposure and population vulnerability indicators jointly contribute to disparities in cancer mortality, disproportionately affecting vulnerable populations such as those in less urbanized areas and marginalized racial and ethnic groups. Targeted research and policies are needed to mitigate these inequities, improve air quality, and reduce cancer mortality in high-risk communities."
"Global burden of tracheal, bronchus, and lung cancer attributable to second-hand smoke exposure from 1992 to 2021: an age-period-cohort analysis and 25-year mortality projections.","Tracheal, bronchus, and lung (TBL) cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. While smoking is the primary risk factor, several non-smoking-related factors also significantly contribute to TBL cancer, notably second-hand smoke (SHS) exposure, which plays a substantial role in the disease's burden. This study assesses and forecasts the temporal trends in the disease burden of TBL cancer attributable to SHS exposure at global, regional, and national levels. We extracted data from the ≥ 25 years population in the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021 (GBD 2021) to assess deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR), and age-standardized DALY rate (ASDR) at both global and regional levels. We evaluated temporal trends using descriptive statistics, estimated annual percentage change (EAPC), and both the age-period-cohort (APC) and Bayesian age-period-cohort (BAPC) models. From 1992 to 2021, absolute deaths and DALYs linked to TBL cancer due to SHS exposure increased, although ASMR and ASDR showed declining trends, with EAPC values of -0.92% and -1.30%, respectively. Regions with a high socio-demographic index (SDI) displayed the most significant improvements. In contrast, high-middle and middle SDI regions bore the greatest disease burden, and low SDI regions saw minimal progress. The highest ASMR in 2021 occurred mainly in Western Europe, North America, and East Asia, with ASMR correlating positively with SDI. The disease burden was consistently higher among males, particularly in the 65-74 age group, across both sexes. Future projections indicate a continuing decline in the disease burden from 2022 to 2046. SHS exposure continues to be a significant factor in the disease burden of TBL cancer. Although there has been an overall declining trend globally, it still caused the deaths of more than 97,000 people in 2021. There exists considerable heterogeneity among regions, with some areas still bearing a substantial disease burden. These findings highlight the need for specific prevention and control strategies to mitigate the health impacts of SHS exposure."
"Global trends in the burden of tracheal, bronchus, and lung cancer attributable to household air pollution.","Tracheal, bronchial, and lung (TBL) cancers, largely attributable to household air pollution (HAP), remain a critical public health challenge, particularly in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Using data from the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2021, this study evaluates global trends in HAP-related TBL cancer burden from 1990 to 2021 and projects future trends to 2051. The study extracted data on deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) from the GBD 2021 and assessed the burden of TBL cancer attributable to HAP by sex, age, region, and socio-demographic index (SDI). The age-period-cohort (APC) model examined the independent effects of age, period, and cohort, while the Bayesian age-period-cohort (BAPC) model predicted future trends over the next 30 years. Between 1990 and 2021, deaths and DALYs from TBL cancer due to HAP decreased by 39.2% and 44.1%, respectively, with the largest declines in high SDI regions, while rates increased in Oceania and sub-Saharan Africa. The global age-standardized mortality rate (ASMR) peaked in the 85-89 years age group, and the age-standardized disability rate (ASDR) peaked in the 70-74 years age group. Males experienced a higher burden than females, with significant differences observed across SDI regions. Projections suggest that mortality and DALYs rates will rise over the next 30 years, with a higher burden forecast for females. Despite significant reductions, TBL cancer from HAP remains a major issue in low SDI regions, particularly in China. Projections indicate increasing mortality and DALYs rates over the next 30 years, disproportionately affecting women, highlighting the urgent need for targeted policies to reduce HAP exposure."
Examining the Interaction between Allergic Asthma and Air Pollution: a Potential Role for Trained Immunity.,"Asthma represents a major global health burden, with incidence increasing substantially over the past 50 years. Epidemiologic studies have linked this rise in asthma to escalating air pollution; however, the biological mechanisms remain undefined. Recent evidence has highlighted a role for innate immune memory, or trained immunity, in asthma pathogenesis; however, the contribution of air pollution remains unclear. This review synthesizes emerging findings on how air pollution shapes trained immunity in asthma and related inflammatory lung diseases. Air pollutants increase gene acetylation and methylation and disrupt innate immune cell metabolism. These immune mediated changes are consistent with features of trained immunity, a process that remains largely underexplored. Collectively, these data support the concept that air pollution imprints long-lasting epigenomic and immunometabolic changes on innate immune cells, thereby contributing to asthma susceptibility and severity. Future studies will focus on mechanistic investigations to further elucidate how pollutants dysregulate innate immune memory."
Web application for particulate matter deposition quantifier: an easy and accessible tool for assessment while exercising.,"This study addressed the development of a user-friendly web-based tool to quantify the deposition of particulate matter (PM) during exercise followed by a functional test. The ""PM-Quantifier"" was developed with open-source technologies and hosted on an institutional server for long-term sustainability. The system was based on a mathematical model for particle deposition from user input, including, age, height, sex, as well as the particle concentration. The exercise parameters include mean minute ventilation (V˙"
Long-term ozone exposure and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder symptoms in school-aged children: Findings from a large multi-city study in China.,Evidence on the association between ambient ozone (O
"Air pollution exposure modes, smoking and genetic risk with chronic respiratory diseases: a prospective study.","Previous studies often focused on single pollutant source, failing to replicate real-world exposure scenarios for chronic respiratory disease (CRD) risk. We aimed to explore the mixed exposure patterns of CRD risk factors and investigate interactions with smoking and genetic risk. We identified air pollution exposure modes using latent class analysis (LCA) in the UK Biobank. Cox model assessed associations between exposure modes and lung cancer (LC), idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma. Interactions among exposure modes, smoking and genetic risk were analyzed. LCA divided participants into five groups, and hazard ratios (HRs) for ""High air pollution"" group were 1.28 for LC (95% CI: 1.08-1.52), 1.23 for IPF (95% CI: 1.03-1.48), 1.28 for COPD (95% CI: 1.17-1.39) and 1.09 for asthma (95% CI: 1.01-1.18). Significant additive interactions between high air pollution and smoking were observed for LC and COPD. Individuals with high genetic risk exposed to both smoking and high air pollution showed the relative excess risk due to interaction (RERI) of 2.74 for LC, 3.93 for IPF, and 1.68 for COPD. Smoking and air pollution together accounted for over 40% of LC, IPF and COPD cases. Our findings highlight the complex interplay between environmental air pollution, smoking, and genetic risk in CRD development in real-world exposure scenarios."
Association between long-term exposure to fine particulate matter from sand dust storms and small airway dysfunction: A national cross-sectional study.,Despite growing concern on the health effects of dust-sourced fine particulate matter (dust PM
Molecular mechanisms of air pollution-induced carcinogenesis and the emerging role of microplastics.,"Ambient air pollution is a major environmental carcinogen consisting of a complex mixture of particulate matter, gases, and adsorbed toxicants. Fine (PM"
"Quantifying the fatal and non-fatal burden of disease associated with child growth failure, 2000-2023: a systematic analysis from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2023.","Child growth failure (CGF), which includes underweight, wasting, and stunting, is among the factors most strongly associated with mortality and morbidity in children younger than 5 years worldwide. Poor height and bodyweight gain arise from a variety of biological and sociodemographic factors and are associated with increased vulnerability to infectious diseases. We used data from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2023 to estimate CGF prevalence, the risk of infectious diseases associated with CGF, and the disease mortality, morbidity, and overall burden associated with CGF. In this analysis we estimated the all-cause and cause-specific (diarrhoea, lower respiratory tract infections, malaria, and measles) disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) lost and mortality associated with stunting, wasting, underweight, and CGF in aggregate. We combined the burden associated with mild, moderate, and severe forms of CGF: stunting was defined as height-for-age Z scores (HAZ) less than -1, underweight was defined as weight-for-age Z scores (WAZ) less than -1, and wasting was defined as weight-for-height Z scores (WHZ) less than -1, according to WHO Child Growth Standards. Population-level continuous distributions of HAZ, WAZ, and WHZ were estimated for 2000 to 2023 using data from surveys, literature, and individual-level study data. The risk of incidence of, and mortality due to, diarrhoea, lower respiratory infections, malaria, and measles was separately estimated in a meta-regression framework from longitudinal cohort data for Z scores less than -1. Finally, fatal outcomes associated with these diseases were estimated with vital registration, verbal autopsy, and case-fatality data, while non-fatal outcomes were estimated with surveys as well as health-care utilisation and case reporting data. The exposure prevalence and relative risk estimates were from continuous distributions, allowing for direct assessment of the attributable fractions for mild, moderate, and severe stunting, underweight, wasting, and the combined impact of child growth failure within populations. All estimates were age-specific, sex-specific, geography-specific, and year-specific. We estimated that, in children younger than 5 years in 2023, CGF was associated with 79·4 million (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 47·0-106) DALYs lost and 880 000 (517 000-1 170 000) deaths. This represented 17·9% (10·6-23·8) of 444 million (434-457) total under-5 DALYs and 18·8% (11·1-25·0) of all 4·67 million (4·59-4·75) under-5 deaths. Compared to stunting (33·0 million [24·1-42·2] DALYs, 373 000 [272 000-477 000] deaths) and wasting (39·2 million [23·8-53·0] DALYs, 428 000 [256 000-583 000] deaths), childhood underweight was associated with the largest share of CGF-related disease burden: 52·2 million (21·9-75·1) DALYs and 573 000 (236 000-824 000) deaths in children younger than 5 years in 2023. CGF remains a leading factor associated with death and disability in children younger than 5 years, despite global attention and focused interventions to reduce the prevalence of associated CGF indicators. Our findings underscore the need for policies, strategies, and interventions that focus on all indicators of CGF to reduce its associated health burden. Gates Foundation."
Multi-organ toxicity of ultrafine particles derived from air pollution: a sub-chronic exposure study in mice.,"Although air pollution-derived ultrafine particles (UFP) can reach extrapulmonary organs, current understanding of their distribution and toxicodynamics remains scarce and largely focused on the lung. In this work, we conducted, to the best of our knowledge, the first in vivo study using a multi-organ approach to assess both the toxicokinetics (i.e., biodistribution) and the toxicodynamics (i.e., oxidative stress, inflammation) of air pollution-derived UFP collected in an urban environment in mice sub-chronically exposed. The intrinsic oxidative potential (OP) of UFP was assessed prior to sub-chronic exposure of Balb/cJRj mice to 0, 10, or 30 μg of UFP/40 μL of sterile saline for 3 months. In the lungs, the heart, the liver, the kidneys, and the brain, oxidative stress was assessed by Nrf2 antioxidant cell signaling pathway activation, glutathione status, and oxidative damage, while NFкB-mediated inflammation was evaluated by specific cytokine secretion. UFP predominantly accumulate in the lung; however, these particles, together with their inorganic and/or organic components, can translocate into the bloodstream and reach highly vascularized extrapulmonary organs (i.e., heart, liver, kidneys, and brain). Owing to their high OP, UFP activated the Nrf2 antioxidant cell signaling pathway and the glutathione scavenging system, contributing to redox homeostasis in all the examined organs, particularly the lung and the brain, without inhibiting proinflammatory cytokine secretion. Taken together, these results highlighted the importance of considering both the biodistribution and the adverse health effects of UFP not only in the lung but also in extrapulmonary organs when assessing health risks."
Can the risk of lung cancer mortality be predicted by the sex ratio at birth?,"Over the past 5 decades, sex ratio at birth (SRB) has declined significantly. It is noteworthy that SRBs may vary considerably across geographical regions and time periods, making them a valuable indicator of general population health and a potential signal of adverse environmental conditions. Long-term exposure to fine particulate matter (PM"
The burden of chronic respiratory disease in Western Pacific Region from 1990 to 2021: a systematic analysis for the global burden of disease study 2021.,"Chronic respiratory diseases (CRDs) like asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pneumoconiosis, interstitial lung disease (ILD) and pulmonary sarcoidosis pose a major global health challenge. This study thoroughly examines the impact of CRDs in the Western Pacific Region (WPR) from 1990 to 2021. Using data from the Global Burden of Disease 2021 study, we evaluated the CRD burden (incidence, prevalence, mortality, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in the WPR. The analysis was categorized by age (20-54, ≥ 55), sex, country, CRD subtype, and risk factors, with temporal trends measured by annual and average annual percentage changes (APC, AAPC). From 1990 to 2021, CRD-related DALYs and mortality decreased across all ages, but incidence and prevalence have increased in those aged 20-54 since 2014. Men bear a higher CRD burden than women, though the gap is closing in the 20-54 age group. Air pollution and tobacco are key risk factors, with high body mass index (BMI) becoming more significant, especially for ages 20-54. High-socio-demographic index (SDI) countries show lower mortality and DALYs despite high prevalence and incidence. COPD and asthma are the main CRDs, with asthma most common in ages 20-54 and COPD in those 55 and older. ILD and pulmonary sarcoidosis burdens have risen, particularly in the 55 + group and in medium-high SDI countries like Japan, Australia, and South Korea. Pneumoconiosis is most prevalent in China and South Korea, mainly affecting males aged 20-54. Despite advances in lowering CRD mortality and DALYs in the Western Pacific since 1990, challenges persist, including high COPD and asthma rates, rising ILD and pulmonary sarcoidosis, localized pneumoconiosis, and more young adult cases. Ongoing efforts in tobacco control, air pollution reduction, weight management, and occupational safety are crucial to further decrease the CRD burden."
"Assessment of indoor radon exposure in kermanshah's educational facilities, and its determinants, health risks, and mitigation strategies.","Ensuring a healthy indoor environment for children is crucial, as they are particularly vulnerable to environmental hazards. Indoor radon exposure is a significant concern due to its carcinogenic effects. This study assessed radon concentrations in primary schools and kindergartens in Kermanshah, Iran, estimated the annual effective dose, and evaluated potential health risks. This cross-sectional study randomly selected 24 primary schools and kindergartens across Kermanshah. Radon concentrations were measured seasonally using a radon meter (SARAD, RTM1688). Air samples were collected at breathing height and at least 40 cm from walls. Building characteristics were recorded using a checklist, and meteorological parameters were measured during sampling. Statistical analysis was conducted using SPSS version 25. The average annual radon concentration was 37.1 ± 6.1 Bq/m"
Association of ambient air pollutants with risk of lung cancer subtypes and survival after diagnosis.,Ambient fine particulate matter (PM
Accounting for Mobility in Air Pollution Exposure Estimates in Studies on Long-Term Health Effects.,"Large-scale epidemiological studies investigating long-term health effects of air pollution can typically only consider the residential locations of the participants, thereby ignoring the space-time-activity patterns that likely influence total exposure. People are mobile and can be exposed to considerably different levels of air pollution or air pollution mixtures when inside versus outside, commuting, recreating, or working. Neglecting these mechanisms in exposure assessment may lead to incorrect distributions of exposure over the population, which may, subsequently, lead to incorrect exposure-health relations in epidemiological studies. In this study, we investigated whether a more sophisticated mobility-enhanced exposure assessment would lead to different exposure predictions and health effect estimates compared with using a residential-based exposure. Agent-based modeling (ABM We successfully developed mobility-enhanced exposures for over 3 million participants, including an assessment of uncertainty. We found a good agreement between exposures estimated with the app and the GPS tracker, supporting the scalability of the approach. We evaluated the ABMs with GPS and time-activity data collected independently in tracking campaigns that included almost 700 participants from selected areas in the two countries. For these participants, the exposures based on GPS measurements versus those derived from ABM showed a moderate to good agreement (R Our results suggest that the assessment of air pollution exposure at the residential address in epidemiological studies generally does not lead to substantial bias in health effects estimates. If time-activity patterns in other study areas differ greatly from the patterns analyzed in our study, differences between residential and activity-enhanced exposures may be larger. Despite the good agreement between residential and work locations, exposure research should continue to strive toward improving exposure assessment in large-scale epidemiological studies to minimize exposure misclassification."
[PM2.5-induced M2 Polarization and IL-1α Secretion by Tumor-associated Macrophages Promotes Lung Adenocarcinoma Progression].,"Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains one of the leading causes of cancer morbidity and mortality worldwide, and its initiation and progression are closely associated with the tumor immune microenvironment. Increasing evidence suggests that environmental exposure is a critical factor influencing lung cancer development. Among these factors, fine particulate matter (PM2.5), a major component of air pollution, has been strongly linked to elevated lung cancer risk and unfavorable prognosis. However, the underlying immunoregulatory mechanisms by which PM2.5 drives LUAD progression remain poorly understood. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), especially those polarized toward the M2 phenotype, are key components of the tumor microenvironment and play crucial roles in tumor growth, angiogenesis, and immune evasion. This study aims to investigate the effects of PM2.5 exposure on TAMs and to identify the key pro-tumorigenic factors mediating this process. A mouse orthotopic lung cancer model under PM2.5 exposure was established to assess lung tumor growth and macrophage phenotypic alterations using in vivo imaging and flow cytometry. A subcutaneous tumor model involving co-inoculated macrophages and tumor cells was used to further verify the effects of PM2.5 on the function of TAMs and tumor malignancy. Combining in vitro experiments, flow cytometry, Western blot, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, colony formation assay, and wound healing assay were employed to evaluate the regulatory effects of PM2.5 on the polarization of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) as well as tumor cell proliferation, migration, and colony-forming ability. Transcriptome sequencing integrated with TISIDB (Tumor-immune System Interactions Database) and GEPIA (Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis) databases was performed to identify key cytokines for further functional validation. In the mouse orthotopic lung cancer model, PM2.5 exposure significantly promoted tumor growth and increased the proportion of M2-type TAMs (P<0.05). Subcutaneous co-inoculation with PM2.5-treated BMDMs markedly enhanced tumor proliferation and elevated the intratumoral M2-type TAMs. PM2.5-pretreated BMDMs exhibited an immunosuppressive programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1)+/arginase 1 (Arg1)+ phenotype, and their conditioned media significantly promoted proliferation, migration, and colony formation of Lewis lung carcinoma cells (LLC) and B16 melanoma cells (B16) (P<0.05). Transcriptome analysis revealed that PM2.5 substantially altered macrophage gene expression, with IL-1α identified as a key upregulated secreted cytokine enriched in immunosuppressive related signaling pathways. Clinical database analyses further indicated that IL-1α expression was positively correlated with macrophage and regulatory T cells (Treg) infiltration in the LUAD immune microenvironment, and that high IL-1α expression was associated with worse overall survival in LUAD patients (HR=1.5, P=0.0053). Western blot, RT-qPCR, and immunofluorescence confirmed that PM2.5 exposure significantly upregulated IL-1α expression and secretion in TAMs. PM2.5 exposure facilitates LUAD progression by inducing an immunosuppressive phenotype in macrophages and enhancing the malignant behaviors of tumor cells. Mechanistically, IL-1α may serve as a key pro-tumorigenic cytokine secreted by macrophages under PM2.5 exposure. This study provides new insights into the pathogenesis of PM2.5-associated LUAD and suggests that IL-1α could serve as a potential therapeutic target. 【中文题目：PM2.5暴露通过诱导肿瘤相关巨噬细胞M2极化及IL-1α的分泌促进肺腺癌进展的机制研究】 【中文摘要：背景与目的 肺腺癌（lung adenocarcinoma, LUAD）是全球发病率和死亡率均居前列的恶性肿瘤，其发生发展与肿瘤免疫微环境密切相关。近年来，大量研究表明，环境暴露因素在LUAD发生中具有重要作用，其中细颗粒物（PM2.5）作为空气污染的主要成分之一，已被证实与肺癌发病风险增加及预后不良密切相关。然而，PM2.5如何通过调控肿瘤免疫微环境促进LUAD进展的分子机制尚不清楚。肿瘤相关巨噬细胞（tumor-associated macrophages, TAMs），尤其是M2型巨噬细胞，在肿瘤生长、血管生成及免疫逃逸中起关键作用。本研究旨在探讨PM2.5暴露是否通过重塑TAMs功能促进LUAD进展，并筛选关键促癌因子。方法 本研究首先构建PM2.5暴露的小鼠原位肺癌模型，采用活体成像技术和流式细胞术分析肺部肿瘤生长及巨噬细胞表型变化。其次，通过巨噬细胞与肿瘤细胞共接种构建皮下移植瘤模型，进一步验证PM2.5对TAMs功能及肿瘤恶性行为的影响。结合体外细胞实验，运用流式细胞术、Western blot、逆转录定量聚合酶链反应（reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, RT-qPCR）、细胞增殖试验（cell counting kit-8, CCK-8）、克隆形成及划痕实验，评估PM2.5对骨髓来源巨噬细胞（bone marrow-derived macrophage, BMDMs）表型及肿瘤细胞增殖、迁移与克隆形成能力的调控作用。最后，通过转录组测序并结合TISIDB（Tumor-immune System Interactions Database）、GEPIA（Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis）等公共数据库进行生物信息学分析，筛选关键细胞因子并进行功能验证。结果 小鼠原位肺癌模型显示，PM2.5暴露可显著促进肺癌生长，并增加M2型TAMs比例（P<0.05）。皮下移植瘤模型显示，共接种PM2.5处理的BMDMs可明显促进肿瘤细胞增殖，且瘤内M2型TAMs比例上调。PM2.5预处理的BMDMs呈现程序性细胞死亡配体1（programmed cell death ligand 1, PD-L1）+、精氨酸酶1（arginase 1, ARG1）+免疫抑制表型，其条件培养基显著增强Lewis肺癌细胞（Lewis lung carcinoma, LLC）和黑色素瘤细胞（B16 melanoma cells, B16）迁移与克隆形成能力（P<0.05）。转录组测序结果显示，PM2.5处理显著改变巨噬细胞基因表达谱，其中白细胞介素-1α（interleukin-1α, IL-1α）作为关键上调的分泌因子，富集于免疫抑制相关信号通路。临床数据库分析进一步表明，IL-1α表达水平与LUAD免疫微环境中巨噬细胞及调节性T淋巴细胞（regulatory T cells, Treg）浸润程度呈正相关，且IL-1α高表达与LUAD患者较差的总生存期显著关联（HR=1.5, P=0.0053）。Western blot、RT-qPCR及免疫荧光实验证实，PM2.5暴露可显著上调TAMs中IL-1α的表达并促进其分泌。结论 PM2.5暴露通过诱导巨噬细胞获得免疫抑制表型并增强肿瘤细胞恶性行为，从而促进LUAD进展。机制上，IL-1α可能是PM2.5暴露环境下巨噬细胞分泌的关键促癌因子。本研究为PM2.5相关LUAD的发病机制提供了新见解，并提示IL-1α可能成为潜在治疗靶点。 】 【中文关键词：肺肿瘤；PM2.5；肿瘤相关巨噬细胞；IL-1α；肿瘤微环境】."
Particulate matter increases bone morphogenetic protein 2 in lung fibroblasts.,Particulate matter (PM) < 2.5 µm (PM
Improved Pulmonary Gas Exchange at Altitude Is Due to Pulmonary Vascular Adaptation to Chronic Hypoxia in Urban Residents.,"Willixhofer, Robin, Laura Gochicoa-Rangel, Anna Apostolo, Jeness Campodonico, Elisabetta Salvioni, Ada De-Los- Santos-Martínez, Alejandro Reyes-García, Luis Torre-Bouscoulet, Sergio Harari, Federico Tagariello, and Piergiuseppe Agostoni. Improved pulmonary gas exchange at altitudes is due to pulmonary vascular adaptation to chronic hypoxia in urban residents. "
Global impact of air pollution on cancer: causal evidence and health inequities across regions from 1990 to 2021.,"This study explored the correlation and causation between air pollutants and cancer at both the macro level, using Global Burden of Disease (GBD) data, and the genetic level, based on Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) data. This study investigated the impact of air pollution on cancer burden at global, regional, and national levels, analyzing variations across age groups and genders and exploring its association with the socio-demographic index (SDI). An ARIMA model was applied to predict the future prevalence of air pollution-related cancers through 2050. Additionally, the study examined the causal relationship between specific air pollutants and 17 types of cancer by conducting two-sample MR analyses, utilizing GWAS data from the UK Biobank and FinnGen databases to assess genetic susceptibility. In 2021, air pollution contributed to approximately 0.37 million cancer-related deaths and 8.93 million DALYs, reflecting a declining trend in this0 health burden before 2020, followed by a slight increase in 2021. The highest burden was observed among individuals aged 75-90, with males being more affected. Projections indicate a likely decline in disease prevalence in high-SDI regions, while countries such as China and parts of Africa may face greater challenges by 2030 and 2050. Mendelian randomization analyses identified significant associations of PM₂.₅, NO₂, and NOx with bronchial and lung cancers and of NO₂ with stomach cancer, validated in both discovery and replication datasets, with the NO₂ association with gastric cancer remaining significant after adjustment for smoking. The GBD study revealed the macro-level impact of air pollution on cancer, with MR analysis confirming its genetic link. These findings underscore the urgent need for targeted policies and interventions to control air pollution and reduce the cancer burden."
Identifying high-risk workplaces for radon: The role of buildings' foundations and underground water sources.,"Radon, a naturally occurring lung carcinogen, can seep into buildings and expose occupants, including workers. Our aim is to describe radon exposure in various workplaces, identify factors associated with exposure, and highlight levers for preventive action. Workplaces with an underground or slab-on-grade work area were recruited in four regions of Québec (Central Canada) with high and low potential for radon emissions. Long-term radon samples were taken during the cold season with Alpha Track AT-100 passive dosimeters, deployed by the research team in accordance with Health Canada's Guide for radon measurements in public buildings. There were 354 radon measurements in 57 buildings constructed between 1877 and 2021 (54 workplaces), with on average six measurements (1-28) per workplace during a median of 109 days. Ten buildings had all measurements below the detection limit (15 Bq/m³), and six had at least one measurement above 100 Bq/m³. The highest values recorded were in a fish hatchery (>1500 Bq/m³). Generalized estimating equations revealed that a lowest floor made of materials other than poured concrete, the presence of naturally occurring radioactive material (underground water), and a small building footprint were the most predictive factors of higher concentrations, regardless of the regional radon emission potential. In this convenience sample, most workplaces presented radon concentrations well below guidelines. However, the surprise expressed by workplace managers and public health officials regarding high concentrations associated with NORM is evidence of a lack of awareness of the dangers of radon in these environments."
Surfactant Protein D Mediates the Association Between Smoking and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Incidence in the Spanish Adult Population: Di@bet.es Study.,"It is well known that environmental factors influence the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Several studies have linked the xenobiotics present in tobacco or air pollutants to T2DM development, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Surfactant protein D (SP-D), an immune component released into the bloodstream after lung injury, has been associated with metabolic diseases. The aim of this study was to investigate whether SP-D mediates the effects of smoking or air pollution exposure on T2DM risk in the Spanish adult population. Socio-demographic, lifestyle (including smoking status) and clinical data from 2155 participants from the Di@bet.es cohort were analyzed. Annual concentrations of PM"
"Addressing the Most Critical Challenges in COPD: An Expert Review of Emotional, Economic, and Evidence-Based Perspectives.","Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive, non-communicable respiratory disease characterized by frequent symptoms, including dyspnea, cough, and sputum production. It affects approximately 10.6% of the global population. It is the third cause of death worldwide and it is projected to impact 592 million globally by 2050. Risk factors, including smoking, air pollution, genetics and infections, can influence disease progression and impact patients' daily lives, causing symptoms such as shortness of breath, fatigue and cough, along with other comorbidities, such as cardiovascular diseases or anxiety. Additionally, COPD imposes a significant economic burden on the health system and patients themselves. Despite being a preventable and treatable disease, the patient journey is marked by multiple challenges, including emotional, economic, and evidence-based barriers that delay diagnosis, hinder treatment and worsen the disease's impact, due to misconceptions, stigma, limited access to diagnostic resources, and inconsistent treatment practices. In this expert review, we propose a framework for discussion about COPD from an emotional, economic and evidence-based perspective, and recommend calls to action to address these challenges, with the aim of reducing the global economic, patient and social burden of COPD. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a progressive, non-communicable respiratory disease associated with symptoms such as dyspnea, cough, and sputum production, which has a significant impact on patients’ quality of life. Currently, it is the third leading cause of death globally and it affects approximately 10.6% of the global population. Despite its severity, COPD is not a priority for healthcare systems and is less prioritized compared to other chronic diseases. For this review, we examined existing literature and data on COPD impact on patients and healthcare systems to identify challenges in diagnosis, treatment, and long-term monitoring and propose calls to action to make COPD a priority for policymakers. With this aim, we proposed a framework to describe challenges from an emotional, economic, and evidence-based perspective and propose calls to action addressing the most critical challenges of COPD along the patient journey, such as raising awareness, improving diagnostic practices, and ensuring access to effective treatments. We encourage policymakers to increase public health education, enhance healthcare provider training, and strengthen advocacy efforts to achieve earlier diagnosis, better treatment adherence, and improved quality of life for people with COPD."
Exposure to diesel particulates induces an immunosuppressive microenvironment that promotes the progression of lung cancer.,"A comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms by which air pollutant exposure drives cancer progression remains incomplete. Particulate matter has been shown to induce genotoxicity and mutagenesis through oxidative stress both in vivo and in vitro. However, its impact on the pulmonary immune microenvironment and its role in modulating anti-tumour immune responses remains poorly characterized. Here, we report that chronic exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEPs), a major component of PM2.5, induces an immunosuppressive lung microenvironment that promotes tumour progression in a KRAS-driven lung adenocarcinoma model (Kras"
New insights into lung cancer risks in middle-aged and older Chinese adults: A CHARLS prospective cohort study with multi-source external validation.,"Lung cancer represents a significant public health burden in China; however, prospective studies on nationally representative risk factors are limited. This study identifies novel risk factors for lung cancer in middle-aged and older Chinese adults using prospective cohort data, with validation through multi-source methods. The study analyzed 14,964 cancer-free participants from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS, 2011-2018). Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate demographic, lifestyle, comorbidity, and environmental factors. External validation included the NHANES cohort (n = 20,278), bibliometric analysis (21,820 papers), and single-center hospital data (200 cases/200 controls). Key risk factors identified include urban residence (HR = 2.71, p = 0.014), diabetes (HR = 2.84, 95 % CI: 1.06-7.63), smoking behavior (each year of delayed smoking cessation increases risk by 4.8 %, each additional cigarette daily raises risk by 4.0 %), and biomass cooking fuel (HR = 5.98, p = 0.083). External validation confirmed the smoking metrics; however, the diabetes-lung cancer association was absent in the NHANES cohort. PM2.5 was also validated as a significant risk factor. Urban residence, diabetes, and smoking behaviors (cessation age/daily quantity) are identified as novel lung cancer risk factors in Chinese adults. The study supports tailored interventions focusing on air quality, metabolic management, and personalized smoking cessation programs, with individualized smoking assessments rather than a simple ""smoker/non-smoker"" classification."
The gut-lung axis: a new perspective on the impact of atmospheric particulate matter exposure on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.,"Environmental pollution is a serious public health problem closely related to various chronic respiratory diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), bronchial asthma, and lung malignancies. Atmospheric particulate matter (PM) is an important component of environmental pollution, and its influence on COPD has been shown to be related to inflammation, oxidative stress, immune imbalance, abnormal cell death, and cell aging. A growing body of evidence has shown that an imbalance of the lung and intestinal microbiota, as well as changes in metabolites, is closely related to the occurrence and development of PM-induced COPD. PM exposure damages the respiratory system and alters the structure and activity of the gut microbiome. The metabolites produced by the gut microbiome, in turn, disrupt airway immunity and exacerbate respiratory inflammation. Therefore, the bidirectional influence of PM on the gut-lung axis has attracted widespread attention. This review explores the mechanisms by which PM causes oxidative stress damage to the lungs and intestines, as well as the characteristics of the resultant immune imbalance and changes in the microbiota and metabolite products. It also describes how PM disrupts barrier function through microecological imbalance and how it participates in the progression of COPD via the gut-lung axis. These mechanisms highlight the potential of targeting the microbial flora as a new approach for treating COPD caused by environmental pollution."
Air pollution and dynamic transitions of preserved ratio impaired spirometry in UK Biobank.,"Although air pollution has been recognized as a risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), little is known regarding the role of air pollutant exposure, specifically particulate matter (PM), in the dynamic transitions among normal spirometry (lung function), pre-COPD status, and COPD status. Pulmonary function observations from the UK Biobank cohort were categorized as normal spirometry, preserved ratio impaired spirometry (PRISm), defined as forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV We include 33,217 participants (71,287 visits) and find that each interquartile range increase in exposure of PM Findings reveal that higher levels of PM Mild impairment in lung function, known as PRISm, can either progress to chronic lung disease such as COPD or return to normal. While air pollution is known to harm lung health, its impact on the transitional direction of the PRISm stage remains unclear. We studied more than 33,000 adults in the UK Biobank who had repeated lung function tests. We found that people exposed to higher levels of fine particles (PM"
"The global burden, trends and cross-region inequities of non-communicable diseases attributed to ambient particulate matter pollution.","Ambient particulate matter poses long-term and geographically uneven health risks, warranting assessment of global burden and regional disparities. GBD 2019 data was used to assess age standardized rates of mortality (ASMR) and DALY (ASDR) from five chronic diseases due to ambient particulate matter from 1990 to 2019, focusing on temporal trends and cross-regional disparities using the Socio-demographic Index (SDI). In 2019, ischemic heart disease (IHD) and stroke accounted for the greatest burdens attributable to ambient particulate matter, with global ASMRs of 30 and 26 per 100,000, respectively, followed by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) at 16, tracheal bronchus and lung (TBL) cancer at 6.8, and diabetes mellitus at 4.5. From 1990 to 2019, COPD showed a marked decline with an AAPC on ASMR of -0.47, while diabetes and TBL cancer rose sharply, with AAPCs of 1.57 and 0.75, respectively. ASDR for the five disease had similar patterns. Southeast Asia, East Asia, and Oceania carried the heaviest TBL cancer and stroke burden from 2000 on, North Africa and the Middle East ranked consistently highest for IHD and diabetes mellitus, and South Asia emerged as the global hotspot for COPD after 2005. TBL cancer was concentrated in higher-SDI regions, whereas COPD and diabetes mellitus rose disproportionately in lower-SDI areas. Population growth and aging were the primary drivers of increases across all diseases. Health inequality analysis further showed a general shift of burdens from high- to low-SDI countries, with indices declining from high positive values to lower or even negative values between 1990 and 2019. Ambient particulate matter continues to drive unequal disease burdens, especially in low- and middle-SDI regions, and more targeted efforts are thus needed."
Vitamin C attenuates low-level PM,Prolonged exposure to PM
"Reducing lung cancer risk from radon exposure in Manheim Township, PA: Radon Resistant New Construction (RRNC) as a significant public health tool.","Radon is a known human carcinogen and the second leading cause of lung cancer worldwide. This study evaluated the effectiveness of Radon Resistant New Construction (RRNC) ordinances enacted in Manheim Township, Pennsylvania, which mandate RRNC features in all new dwellings, to reduce lung cancer risk associated with radon exposure. We identified new dwellings in Manheim Township built under RRNC ordinances and analyzed corresponding radon test and mitigation data from PA DEP databases. After carefully reviewing the data and correcting database reporting anomalies, we evaluated indoor radon levels with and without RRNC and estimated the average reduction. Finally, we employed an existing dose-response model to estimate the average reduction of lung cancer risk associated with RRNC, taking smoking status into consideration. We analyzed 1,734 radon tests conducted in 483 homes, and found on average those homes built with RRNC features reduced the indoor radon concentration by 16.71 pCi/L and lowered the excess relative lung cancer risk attributable to radon exposure by 99%, regardless of smoking status. Using real world data collected both before and after a change in municipal laws, these results provide strong evidence supporting the adoption of similar mandatory RRNC in other PA jurisdictions, nationwide, and in other countries that seek to reduce radon exposure and associated risks in indoor environment. This study demonstrates that the adoption and implementation of RRNC can reduce indoor radon levels, and consequently lower radon-related lung cancer risks."
A spatial lag model analysis of lung cancer incidence and satellite-derived data on air pollution in Thailand from 2020 to 2023.,"This study aimed at investigating the association between satellite-based remotely sensed data on particulate matter with diameters less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5), sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and carbon monoxide (CO) on the one hand, with the incidence of lung cancer in Thailand on the other. Regression analyses on a nationwide dataset comprising 604,460 confirmed cases reported between 2020 and 2023 were conducted using the Spatial Lag Model (SLM) to assess the relationship between the ambient air pollutants and lung cancer incidence. The results revealed that provinces with the highest cancer incidence rates were consistently found to be located in the eastern part of north-eastern Thailand and the far North as well as some provinces in the South. The SLM accounted for a moderate proportion of variance in lung cancer incidence, with R² values ranging from 0.1548 to 0.1755 over the study period. PM2.5 concentrations were positively and significantly associated with incidence rates each year, an effect increasing from 2020 (0.2160, p=0.0075) to 2023 (0.3096, p=0.0102). These findings highlight the potential of satellite-based air quality data, particularly PM2.5 for predicting and monitoring lung cancer incidence, thereby supporting evidence- based public health planning and environmental policy in Thailand. The results add empirical evidence to the growing body of literature demonstrating the public health consequences of ambient air pollution."
Marginal structural models for quantifying the causal effects of exposure to ambient air pollution on progression of CT emphysema in the MESA Lung and MESA Air Studies.,"Associations between exposure to ambient air pollution and progression of emphysema have been identified in longitudinal observational studies. However, previous work has not used statistical causal inference methods tailored to address bias from time-varying confounding. The objective of this study is to propose an analytical approach for estimating longitudinal health effects of air pollution while accounting for time-varying confounding using marginal structural models and to re-analyze data on air pollution and emphysema progression from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA) using this analytical approach. We estimate weights for continuous exposure levels using two techniques: quantile binning of the exposure and a semiparametric model for the requisite conditional densities. The latter approach incorporates flexible machine learning methods. We find evidence for the harmful effects of ambient ozone pollution during study follow-up on the progression of emphysema, consistent with previously reported results. We find no evidence of effects of NOx during study follow-up. This investigation demonstrates that analyses based on marginal structural models are feasible in studies of the health effects of air pollution and may address possible sources of bias that traditional regression-based methods fail to address. Further investigation is warranted to understand differences between our findings and previously published results."
"Global, regional and national estimates of the burden of childhood asthma attributable to NO","Asthma, a chronic lung condition characterised by inflammation and airway constriction, has been associated with nitrogen dioxide (NO We systematically reviewed epidemiological studies evaluating NO We identified a total of 27 cohort studies, spanning 12 countries, primarily in Europe and high-income North America, with some studies from Asia (China and Japan). A meta-regression log-linear risk curve of these studies produced a summary RR of 1.05 (95% UI 0.99-1.12) per 5 ppb NO NO The research described in this article was conducted in part under contract with the Health Effects Institute (HEI), an organization jointly funded by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and certain motor vehicle and engine manufacturers, grant number 4977/20-11. The contents of this article do not necessarily reflect the views of HEI or its sponsors, nor do they necessarily reflect the views and policies of the EPA or motor vehicle and engine manufacturers. Additional funding for this study was received by the Gates foundation, grant no. OPP1152504 for MB, KB, and SW. SA, DG, AM and GHK were supported by NASA grant no. 80NSSC21K0511 and SA and GHK NIH grant no. P20ES036775."
High-Throughput Microfluidic Technologies for Rapidly Screening Pollutant-Induced Cell Health Effects.,"Air pollution exposure is linked to diseases spanning multiple physiological systems. However, environmental stress is overwhelmingly associated with several lung diseases. Since the chemical composition of air pollutants varies widely across geographical locations, research on how specific components in pollutant mixtures contribute to cellular dysfunction is needed. In this work, we utilized microscopy-based morphological profiling as a tool to assess the cellular susceptibility to pollutants. Through our analysis, we established morphological profiles of formaldehyde-exposed cells that showed dose-dependent shifts in cell shape profiles correlating with overall cell health. As a real-world proof-of-concept validation, we evaluated the differences in particulate matter (PM) composition across multiple geographical areas, including both urban and suburban communities in Austin, Texas, USA. Data from this real-world study was used to inform a multicombinatorial study involving metals, selenium (Se) and manganese (Mn), which were differentially abundant across PM collection sites. As proof of concept to demonstrate the potential of establishing low-cost, high-throughput combinatorial screening of the biological effects of these metals, we incorporated microfluidic technology to simultaneously generate variable two-component metal mixtures in a multiwell plate format that enabled microscopy-based morphological screening as a proxy for toxicity. Combinatorial analysis of Se and Mn showed dynamic cell responses across a range of concentrations. Interestingly, exposure mixtures containing both Se and Mn yielded healthier cellular phenotypes relative to Se exposure as a single component. These results demonstrate the development of a high-throughput pipeline to detect dynamic biological responses to common air pollutants. Leveraging multiple technologies, we demonstrate the feasibility of a cost-effective approach that can serve as a starting point to inform focused screenings and studies of air pollutant mixtures that affect health outcomes."
Linking urban expansion patterns to lung cancer risk: a nationwide analysis in Chinese cities.,"Urban expansion, with multifaceted urban form changes, has been proved to have profound impact on environmental quality and population health. While existing research has widely explored the link between urban form and respiratory health, most evidence comes from intra-city comparisons within single metropolitan areas, highlighting a need for more representative, nationwide studies. To address this gap, we systematically examined associations between urban expansion characteristics and lung cancer incidence across 180 Chinese cities, using structural equation models with air pollution exposure as a mediator. Our findings indicated that urban expansion characterized by a larger total urban area (β = 0.204,  Our nationwide analysis shows urban expansion characteristics – specifically larger scale, higher density, faster expanding speed, and cropland mixing – significantly elevate lung cancer risk through increased air pollution exposure, with stronger effects in county-level cities. These results provide exploratory evidence that may inform the development of health-oriented urban policies and land use interventions, not only in China but also in other rapidly urbanizing developing countries."
Polycyclic nitroaromatic compounds in HULIS as dominant pro-apoptotic agents in PM,Identifying the toxic components in PM
Long-term exposure to ultrafine particles accelerates biological aging and increases respiratory vulnerability in COPD.,"Long-term exposure to particulate matter is a known risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), yet the impact of ultrafine particles (UFPs) remains poorly understood. As COPD is an age-related disease, the potential modifying role of biological age acceleration in UFP-induced respiratory effects warrants investigation. We conducted a longitudinal panel study of 47 COPD patients with three repeated clinic visits in Beijing, China. Annual exposure levels to UFPs were estimated using a land use regression model. Lung function and respiratory inflammation were assessed at each visit. Biological age was quantified using the Klemera-Doubal method (KDM-BA) and PhenoAge algorithms. Associations were estimated using linear mixed-effects models. Overall, each IQR increase in UFPs exposure was associated with a 3.0-year increase in both KDM-BA (95 % CI: 0.2-5.8) and PhenoAge acceleration (95 % CI: 0.1-5.8). Accelerated biological age was associated with reductions in large and small airway function and lung volume. Stratified analysis indicated that individuals with faster biological aging were more susceptible to UFP-related lung injury. Our study provides novel evidence linking long-term UFP exposure to accelerated biological aging and impaired respiratory function in COPD patients. Biological age may serve as a modifier in assessing air pollution-related health risks."
Follow-up of cancer incidence associated with smoke-related PM,"The link between chronic exposure to ambient PM We obtained Victorian Cancer Registry data linked to 2,872 Hazelwood Health Study Adult Cohort members, from August 2014 to December 2022 and analysed all cancers combined and cancer subtypes. Individual fire-related PM In the post-mine fire period, 295 people (14.3/1000 person-years) were diagnosed with 332 new cancers (12.7/1000 person-years). No significant association was found between fire-related PM We found no evidence that this coal mine fire increased cancer incidence. However, it would be premature to rule out potential carcinogenic effects. Cancer has a long latency period, which means it will be necessary to analyse new data as they become available to more conclusively determine the effects of medium-duration, high-level smoke exposure."
Effect of Particulate Matter Pollution on Global Lung Cancer Burden: A Systematic Analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 1990-2021.,"Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer mortality globally, with particulate matter pollution (PMP) identified as a critical environmental risk. This study analyzes long-term trends in age-standardized mortality (ASMR) and disability-adjusted life-year rates (ASDR) for PMP-attributable lung cancer, with projections to 2030. Using Global Burden of Disease data, we evaluated temporal trends across age, sex, and Sociodemographic Index (SDI) regions through age-period-cohort and Bayesian models. Global Trends: PMP-related ASMR/ASDR declined significantly over the study period, while ambient PMP (APMP)-attributable rates increased, contrasting with household air pollution (HAP)-related declines. Age and Sex Disparities: Mortality burden shifted toward older populations, with APMP-related deaths rising sharply in the elderly. Males exhibited faster declines in PMP/HAP-related mortality, whereas females faced steeper increases in APMP-attributable risks. SDI variations: High-middle SDI regions consistently had the highest PMP-related mortality, with ASMR trends reflecting industrialization phases. Projections: PMP-related burdens are expected to rise globally, driven by aging populations and persistent pollution in middle-SDI regions. The escalating burden in vulnerable populations demands urgent interventions, including air quality improvement, tobacco control, and enhanced screening, Notably, China consistently exhibited the world's highest PMP-attributable lung cancer ASMR (13.6 per 100 000 in 1990, declining to 10.1 per 100 000 in 2021). Future strategies must integrate gender-specific risk mitigation and environmental-genetic assessments to address disparities."
"Genetic ablation of p16 leads to pulmonary remodeling, pro-senescence response, and immune modulation in mice exposed to low-dose, Sub-chronic, environmental tobacco smoke.","Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2 A, CDKN2A/p16INK4a (p16), is a gene involved in regulating the cell cycle, cellular senescence, and inflammatory responses. The role of p16 in pulmonary immune-inflammatory and cellular senescence responses to low-dose, sub-chronic environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is not known. We hypothesized that p16-deficient (knockout, KO) mice would exhibit adverse lung responses compared to wild-type (WT) mice, characterized by a decline in lung function, impaired immune responses, lung remodeling, and dysregulated inflammatory responses at low-level ETS exposure. C57BL/6J (WT) and p16 knockout, p16 Histological analysis revealed mild alveolar simplification in p16 KO mice compared to WT mice. CDKN2A/p16 KO BALF did not have the same immune cell infiltration or cytokine response as the WT counterparts, where IL-17A, TNF-α, and GM-CSF were significantly elevated, indicating impaired immune response with p16 deficiency. Proteomic analysis revealed significantly elevated proteins related to inflammation, extracellular matrix remodeling, cellular metabolism, pro-senescence, and oxidative stress in p16 KO mice (Kynu, Col5a3, Lamtor3). NLRP3 and PTGS2 (COX-2) activation z-scores were lower in p16 KO mice, while IL33 and CCR5 activation z-scores were higher compared to WT mice. Thus, p16 deficiency amplifies ETS-induced alveolar architecture, impaired immune responses, and altered inflammatory pathways, contributing to heightened susceptibility to emphysema-like changes compared to WT mice even at low ETS levels. This study revealed that p16 deletion alters response to low-level ETS, not necessarily by amplifying the classic 'damage response' but by modifying immune and senescence signaling in the lungs. Overall, p16 has a complex and nuanced protective role in lung health, and careful targeting p16-related pathways could offer therapeutic strategies for mitigating chronic lung diseases."
Cellular responses of human bronchial epithelial cells following short-term exposure to oxidative particulate matter.,Adverse health effects associated with fine particulate matter (PM
Impact of Environmental Pollutant Exposures on Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia.,"Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is the second most common pediatric chronic respiratory disorder after asthma. Infants and children with BPD can have markedly different long-term respiratory outcomes despite being born at similar gestational ages, which is partially attributable to environmental exposures. Furthermore, these early life exposures can have lifelong consequences for the respiratory system, including decrements in lung function. In this review, we discuss what is known about the effects of environmental pollutants on respiratory outcomes for individuals born prematurely, and more specifically, those with BPD where data exist. Ultimately, targeting individuals with modifiable risk factors, such as preventable exposures, may improve long-term health outcomes for this vulnerable group."
Manganese-Doped Hollow Cerium Oxide Nanozyme as a Potent Cigarette Smoke Purifier for Vapor-Phase Reactive Oxygen Species Scavenging.,Tobacco smoke-induced lung disease remains a major global health threat. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) present in cigarette smoke including superoxide (
Air pollution and lung cancer: a comprehensive review.,"Since 2013, air pollution has been recognised as a definite carcinogen by the IARC (International Agency for Research on Cancer). This follows major international epidemiological studies, which now show that people living in a polluted environment are more likely to die of lung cancer. Worldwide, air pollution is the second leading cause of premature death and is estimated to be responsible for around 14 % of lung cancers. Fine particles (PM2.5) are particularly studied for their carcinogenic potential, and recent discoveries have given us a better understanding of their pathophysiological link with certain types of cancer, particularly those harboring mutations in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR). The lung-cancer research community and clinical scientists should work to reduce sources of atmospheric pollution in the interests of public health, which must be accompanied by an effective fight against climate change, main announced cause of a deterioration in the quality of our common air."
"Subchronic Residual Oil Fly Ash (ROFA) exposure induces oxidative stress in brain, lung, and cardiac tissues and promotes neuroinflammation, with partial attenuation by taurine.","Exposure to particulate matter (PM₂.₅), including Residual Oil Fly Ash (ROFA), triggers oxidative stress and inflammation. Taurine, an antioxidant amino acid, may protect against these effects, but its efficacy against subchronic ROFA exposure is unclear. This study evaluated taurine's protective role in ROFA-induced multi-organ damage and neurobehavioral changes. Male Wistar rats received ROFA (250 µg/day, intranasally) for six weeks, with or without taurine (400 mg/kg/day). Oxidative markers (CAT, SOD, TBARS) were measured in the brain, lungs, heart, and liver. Cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β) were assessed in plasma and brain. Behavior was tested using Open Field, Elevated Plus Maze, and Novel Object Recognition. ROFA increased oxidative stress, reducing catalase in the brain and lungs and raising TBARS. Neuroinflammation was evident via elevated TNF-α and IL-1β and confirmed by histopathology, which revealed Gitter cells and endothelial hypertrophy. ROFA also raised urea levels and caused pulmonary damage. Behaviorally, ROFA increased locomotion (distance traveled and line crossings) without altering anxiety or memory. Taurine attenuated oxidative stress in the liver and kidneys. While taurine treatment alone increased vertical exploratory behavior (rearing), it did not significantly reverse the behavioral or neuropathological changes induced by ROFA exposure. Subchronic ROFA exposure causes multi-organ damage, predominantly in the brain and lungs. Histopathological evidence confirmed significant neuroinflammation. Taurine provides partial, organ-specific protection against oxidative stress but has limited efficacy against neuroinflammation. These findings suggest taurine's benefits are context-dependent, highlighting the need for further research into its mechanisms and potential in combating air pollution-related health effects."
"Exposure to household air pollution in relation to stomach and esophageal cancer in Xuanwei, China.","Household air pollution (HAP) is a global health burden affecting about half of the world's population. In Xuanwei, China, individuals experience high concentrations of various HAP constituents, particularly polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Here, the association between HAP constituents and cause-specific mortality from stomach and esophageal cancer was investigated. The study was conducted in a cohort of 42,420 subjects from Xuanwei, China. Participants were followed from 1976 to 2011. Type of fuel used was collected through a questionnaire and categorized into lifetime smoky vs. other fuel use. Annual exposures were predicted for 43 HAP constituents and 5 clusters were identified using hierarchical clustering. Cox regression was used to estimate the association between lifetime smoky coal use and pollutant clusters with stomach (n = 143) and esophageal (n = 39) cancer. All models were stratified by sex and birth cohort and adjusted for smoking status and education. Lifetime smoky coal use (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.40, 95 % confidence interval [CI]: 1.00, 1.96) and a large PAH cluster, PAH37 (HR = 1.59, 95 % CI: 1.19, 2.13 per standard deviation [SD]), were associated with stomach cancer mortality. Similarly, lifetime smoky coal use (HR = 2.84, 95 % CI:1.38, 5.85) and PAH37 (HR = 1.75, 95 % CI: 1.01, 3.04 per SD) were associated with esophageal cancer mortality. Stratified analyses found that the association between PAH37 and stomach cancer was higher among women compared to men (P-interaction = 0.02). This study identified an association between HAP and risk of stomach and esophageal cancer mortality in a highly exposed population. Future work is needed to investigate potential risk differences by timing of exposure."
Wildfire-specific fine particulate matter and preterm birth: a US ECHO Cohort analysis.,"Exposure to PM In this cohort analysis, we included live singleton births recorded in the ECHO Cohort with available data on gestational age at birth and birthweight and dates of conception between Jan 1, 2006, and March 20, 2020. Census tract-level estimates of daily mean wildfire-derived PM We included 20 034 births from 30 ECHO Cohort study sites, with residences during pregnancy in all 48 contiguous US states and the District of Columbia. 1687 (8·4%) of the 20 034 infants were preterm. The mean daily wildfire PM In a prospective cohort, we observed increased odds of preterm birth associated with wildfire PM ECHO Program, US National Institutes of Health Office of the Director."
Interaction between genetic predisposition to successful ageing and chronic air pollution on lung disease in elderly women: results of the German SALIA cohort.,"To investigate the interplay between the genetic predisposition to successful ageing and air pollution on lung disease in healthy aged German women under the hypothesis that ageing and lung diseases share mechanisms of oxidative stress and inflammation that can be regulated by genetic predisposition and environmental factors. German Study on the influence of Air pollution on Lung function, Inflammation and Aging prospective cohort between baseline (1985-1994) and follow-up (2007-2010). Urban Ruhr area and the adjacent rural Münsterland in Germany. At baseline, 4874 women aged 55 years living between 1985 and 1994 in the setting and at follow-up examination, 834 of them participated. Chronic lung disease was defined as any of asthma, chronic bronchitis, cough (with sputum) or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Chronic individual exposures to nitrogen dioxide (NO In 560 women (67-80 years), chronic lung disease was present in 156. Higher exposure to air pollution was associated with increased odds by up to 43% per IQR-increase in NO In elderly women, genetic predisposition based on successful ageing SNPs likely reduces the negative impact of air pollution on chronic lung disease, while a healthy lifestyle further strengthens this association."
Gradual Increase in Lung Cancer Risk Due to Particulate Matter Exposure in Patients With Pulmonary Function Impairments: A Nationwide Korean Database Analysis.,"Lung cancer remains a significant public health concern, with external environmental factors, such as particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5), playing a crucial role in its development. This study aimed to assess the interaction between cumulative exposure to PM2.5 and lung function impairment, focusing on the risk of lung cancer in a large Korean population. Data from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 2007 to 2020 were analyzed with linkage of the national cancer registry. A total of 43,973 participants, including 386 lung cancer cases, were included, with spirometry data available to classify lung function into categories. PM2.5 exposure was quantified using geocoded address information. Logistic regression models with interaction terms were used to evaluate lung cancer risk according to PM2.5 exposure levels and in interaction of lung function categories. A significant increase in lung cancer risk was observed with higher PM2.5 exposure levels, with odds ratios (ORs) of 1.41, 1.59, and 1.68 for the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th quartiles, respectively in multivariable models. Stratified analysis showed that the interaction between PM2.5 exposure and obstructive lung function significantly increased lung cancer risk, with ORs of 2.74 for spirometric obstruction and 3.43 for preserved ratio impaired spirometry in the highest PM2.5 quartile. This study suggests the carcinogenic risk of PM2.5 exposure, particularly in individuals with obstructive lung function impairments."
"Ambient air pollutant mixture and lung function among children in Fresno, California.","Ambient air pollutants such as particulate matter (PM), ozone (O3), and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) have been associated with lower lung function among children. However, the reported associations could be due to correlation with other pollutants. We investigate the relationships between exposures to eight ambient air pollutants and children's lung function and apply mixture analysis to identify key contributors to health effects. The Children's Health and Air Pollution Study (CHAPS) in Fresno, California, is a prospective cohort study that recruited 299 children and assessed their lung function at two visits, at approximately 7 and 9 years of age. The children's forced expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), and FEV1/FVC ratio were standardized using the Global Lung Function Initiative (GLI) race-neutral calculators. We assessed the children's average daily residential exposures to PM2.5, PM10, nitrogen oxides (NOx), NO2, O3, carbon monoxide (CO), elemental carbon (EC), and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), during the 1-week, 1-month, 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month periods before each visit, and the 2 years between visits. We applied linear mixed-effect models and quantile-based g-computation (q-gcomp) for statistical analysis. The children's exposures to the eight ambient air pollutants exhibited high intercorrelation: Seven air pollutants were positively correlated, while O3 exposures were negatively correlated with the other pollutants. Higher PM10 was associated with lower FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio, and the associations were strongest for the 3-month exposure timeframe. Q-gcomp also identified PM10 as the key pollutant associated with lower FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio. Among the eight ambient air pollutants, PM10 was the strongest risk factor for impaired lung function among children in Fresno. Ambient air pollution levels in this community exceed regulatory standards and are harmful to children's lung function."
"Occupational Exposure to Ambient Air Pollution: At-Risk Worker Groups, Regulatory and Research Needs An Official American Thoracic Society Workshop Report.","Although health effects of ambient air pollution are well established in the general population, the impact of exposure in working populations remains poorly understood. Outdoor workers are disproportionately exposed to ambient air pollution, particularly with increasing wildfire smoke events and global climate change. An international interdisciplinary group of experts including worker representation assembled to review the current state of knowledge regarding the impact of occupational air pollution exposure on worker health and develop recommendations for research and actions to evaluate, mitigate, and regulate occupational air pollution exposure. The group identified health risks likely resulting from air pollution based on studies of the general population, noting that additional risks may be encountered from coexposures, as well as exertion increasing the work of breathing. High-risk groups were identified, including agricultural workers, construction workers, and wildland firefighters; others working in warehouses and indoor spaces are likely at risk via ambient air pollutant infiltration. It was estimated that at least 20 million outdoor U.S. workers are exposed to air pollution at work, which limits productivity and increases absenteeism. Participants recommended using air quality to guide work modifications and adoption of the hierarchy of exposure controls as a model to reduce exposures, as used by some states and proposed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health for agricultural and other outdoor workers. Existing research supports the urgent need for policies to protect workers from exposure. Research gaps remain, including medical surveillance strategies, improved technology to protect workers, and studies specifically evaluating the impacts of occupational air pollution exposure."
Mast cells are essential in the development of exposure-associated exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in a mouse model.,"Cold air and air pollution are known triggers to induce symptoms in exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB). Mast cells are hypothesized to be a key player in the pathogenesis of EIB. This study aims to investigate the role of mast cells using mast cell deficient (Cpa3 Male Cpa3 Inhibition of mast cells by Doxantrazole or mice lacking functional mast cells (Cpa3 Mast cells are crucial in the development of bronchial hyperreactivity and macrophage activation. Additionally, they have a complex interplay with neutrophilic inflammation. These findings highlight the potential of mast cell modulation as therapeutic strategy in exposure-associated EIB."
Seasonal PM,"Air pollution, specifically fine particulate matter (PM Summer and fall PM Seasonal variations in PM2.5 composition during winter, spring, and fall-coinciding with influenza season-likely enhance pro-inflammatory responses to viral infection, with early inflammation contributing to worsened pathogenesis."
"Biomarker changes before and after the 2024 peak burning period in healthy, diabetic, and hypertensive residents of Chiang Mai, Thailand.","Burning-related air pollution is a recurrent seasonal problem in Chiang Mai, Thailand, from March to May. Exposure has been linked to pulmonary damage and oxidative stress, measurable via serum Club Cell Protein 16 (CC16) and 8-Iso-prostaglandin F2α (8-iso-PGF2α). Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), especially 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OHP), are emitted during incomplete combustion and may contribute to diabetes and hypertension through oxidative pathways. Few studies have examined how PAH exposure from seasonal air pollution affects lung function biomarkers in individuals with these conditions in this region. A prospective cohort study was conducted in three Chiang Mai locations, following 127 participants with diabetes and/or hypertension during the before-burning (December 2023) and after-burning (May 2024) periods. Urinary 1-OHP measured PAH exposure, while serum CC16 and 8-iso-PGF2α assessed pulmonary damage and oxidative stress. Structured questionnaires captured participant characteristics and symptoms. Quantitative health-risk assessment (QHRA) converted 1-OHP to benzo[a]pyrene-equivalent doses for estimating lifetime cancer risk (LCR) and hazard quotient (HQ). From before- to after-burning, cohort-wide means increased significantly: urinary 1-OHP (0.24 ± 0.05 to 0.90 ± 1.21 μmol/mol Cre;  After burning in Chiang Mai substantially increases PAH exposure, pulmonary injury markers, and oxidative stress in individuals with diabetes and hypertension, with differential effects by comorbidity. Cancer risk thresholds were exceeded in older subgroups despite HQs below non-cancer hazard levels, highlighting the need for targeted protection strategies during burn seasons."
"Prenatal exposure to air pollution affects autophagy, senescence and remodelling proteins in cord blood.","Air pollution increases inflammation and reactive oxygen species that can induce autophagy, thereby leading to airway inflammation and remodelling. However, it is unclear whether prenatal air pollution may impact proteins involved in autophagy. The objectives of the present study were to investigate the associations of prenatal air pollution with proteins indicative of autophagy, senescence and remodelling in infants. We included 387 healthy term newborns from the BILD cohort study and measured 11 proteins: interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-8, matrix metallopeptidase (MMP)-3, MMP-9, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-AA, transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), sirtuin-1, p62, LC3B, tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and Beclin-1 in cord blood serum and plasma. We assessed the association of whole pregnancy residential exposure to nitrogen dioxide (NO Our results indicate that NO Our findings in healthy term newborns showed that prenatal air pollution exposure is associated with alterations in levels of autophagy-related proteins. For the first time, we identified four distinct clusters of newborns, suggesting that there are different air pollution response patterns in a healthy population."
"Lung cancer clusters and air pollution exposure in Wayne County, Michigan: an autoregressive distributed lag model.","Lung cancer is the most common cancer killer in the world. Although smoking is the biggest risk factor, it is increasingly being discovered that environmental pollution is also associated with the development of lung cancer. Previous studies have discovered the impact of environmental pollution on lung cancer, but it has been difficult to determine the duration of time after exposure in which the risk is greatest. Our goals were to investigate the association of specific air pollutants with lung cancer and to determine the lag time at which the incidence peaks following exposure. The Michigan Cancer Surveillance Program (MCSP) was queried from 1985 to 2018 for every case of lung cancer that occurred in Wayne County during that period. Data was obtained from the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for multiple pollutants from 1980 to 2021. Clusters of lung cancer in the county were detected by using SaTScan. Air pollution levels inside and outside the clustered areas were measured. The lagged relationship between pollution exposure and health outcome inside and outside the clustered areas were examined by using autoregressive distributed lag (ARDL) models, controlling for patient demographic features and meteorological conditions (MCs). Three separate lung cancer clusters encompassing 26 zip codes were detected with a relative risk (RR) larger than 1. These three clusters were all located within urban and industrial areas and experienced higher air pollution than non-cluster areas. After controlling for MCs and sociodemographic variables, the optimal lag dramatically decreased to a shorter responsive period (2-3 years) than previous clinical expectations (9-12 years). Additionally, ozone exposure levels demonstrated shorter lag times inside cluster areas (2 years) than outside cluster areas (3 years). Furthermore, sulfur dioxide levels were significantly associated with lung cancer incidence inside cluster areas, while no pollutant showed a significant relationship in non-cluster areas. Although future studies are required to validate these findings, the ARDL model may play a role in estimating a responsive window for lung cancer incidence. The lag time between exposure to environmental pollutants and development of lung cancer may be shorter than previously thought based on this population-based study. Future research should continue to model air pollution lag times and lung cancer in different settings."
"Restrictive Lung Function Patterns and Sex Differences in Primary School Children Exposed to PM2.5 in Chiang Mai, Northern Thailand.","Northern Thailand experiences annual haze events with fine particulate matter (PM2.5) exceeding standards, posing risks to schoolchildren. This cross-sectional study (Chiang Mai, 2024) evaluated respiratory impacts among primary school children aged 8-12 years. Daily mean PM2.5 concentrations were obtained from a single fixed-site monitoring station (36T) located within 2 km of the spirometry site. Among 93 children with acceptable spirometry, 52% exhibited restrictive, 18% obstructive, and 30% had normal function. After adjustment for BMI, males had significantly lower odds of any pulmonary abnormality than females (AOR = 0.084; 95% CI 0.017-0.417; "
Cross-Sectional Association of Ground-Level Ozone and Nitrogen Dioxide With Cardiac Mechanics Using Speckle-Tracking Echocardiography in the Cardiovascular Health Study.,"Ground-level ozone (O We applied speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) to explore the relationship between chronic residential gaseous air pollution exposure and cardiac mechanics in community-dwelling older adults largely free of baseline heart disease. Average annual address-specific concentrations of O One thousand five hundred and seventy-six individuals were included in the analysis. We found that each part per billion increase in O Ozone exposure may be associated with subclinical markers of diastolic dysfunction, while NO"
In situ propagation-based lung computed tomography for large animal models.,"The lung is a complex organ with a hierarchical structure, containing four times more air than tissue. It is in constant contact with environmental factors such as pollution and pathogens, leading to pathological alterations at various hierarchical levels. Because of its intricate structure and continuous movement, lung imaging presents significant challenges for most existing techniques. Recent advancements in phase-contrast computed tomography and photon-counting detectors have greatly enhanced lung imaging capabilities. Specifically, propagation-based imaging (PBI), a phase-contrast method that does not require optical elements, has proven particularly effective at low X-ray dose rates due to the strong phase shifts between lung tissue and aerated regions. This study introduces an in situ imaging approach for large-scale lungs using PBI at the Imaging and Medical Beamline (IMBL) of the Australian Synchrotron. We investigated optimal conditions for PBI, including energy and propagation distance settings, and found that an X-ray beam energy of 70 keV combined with a 7 m propagation distance yields the highest image quality in terms of contrast-to-noise ratio while also delivering the lowest radiation dose. Furthermore, Monte Carlo simulations were performed on the reconstructed volume to calculate absorbed radiation doses in tissues. These findings provide valuable insights for designing future experiments aimed at minimizing radiation exposure and potentially enable in vivo applications in larger animals or even humans."
METTL3-driven m,"Air pollution, particularly from fine particulate matter (PM2.5), poses a significant threat to respiratory health, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying PM2.5-induced lung injury remain incompletely understood. This study investigated the role of "
Avoidable Mortality Burden Attributable to PM2.5 in Madrid (Spain).,The World Health Organization (WHO) established in 2021 an annual health limit of 5 μg/m La WHO estableció en 2021 un límite anual sanitario de concentración de PM2.5 (cPM2.5) en el ambiente de 5 μg/m
Assessment of respirable silica in ambient air of Dhaka and evaluation of human health risks.,"Respirable Silica (RS) is a substantial pollutant in urban air, and it is associated with severe health hazards, including lung inflammation, kidney diseases, poor lung function, and silicosis. RS levels in close proximity to occupational and emission sources are widely reported; however, ambient exposure from non-occupational sources is still not properly studied. This study examines the concentration of RS in ambient air during different seasons of the year and the diverse sources that contribute to RS concentrations in Dhaka City, Bangladesh. Ambient fine particulate matter (PM) was collected using a low-volume air sampler on Teflon filters at an average flow rate of 15.4 ± 1.36 L min⁻¹, with each sample collected continuously over 24 h to assure a representative daily exposure at five different locations. RS concentrations were quantified spectrophotometrically, with a limit of detection (LOD) of 0.05 µg m⁻³. The highest recorded concentration was 14.2 µg m⁻³, while the mean RS concentration was 3.74 ± 3.12 µg m⁻³. Seasonal patterns indicated increased RS concentrations in winter (6.28 µg m⁻³) relative to the pre-monsoon (1.97 µg m⁻³) and post-monsoon (3.74 µg m⁻³) phases. Among the five study sites, the Teacher Student Center (TSC) exhibited the highest RS concentration (7.33 µg m⁻³) due to proximity to metro-rail construction, whereas the academic building site recorded the lowest (0.95 µg m⁻³), indicating relatively cleaner air. Health risk assessments indicated an average hazard quotient (HQ) of 1.25, suggesting significant non-cancer risks, and a cancer risk of 14.2 cases per 10,000, emphasizing the urgent need to address RS exposure. These findings emphasize the substantial public health impact associated with ambient RS pollution in urban environments, urging quick regulatory and mitigation steps in rapidly rising cities such as Dhaka. The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1038/s41598-025-21348-0."
"Global, regional, and national sepsis incidence and mortality, 1990-2021: a systematic analysis.","The global burden of sepsis, a life-threatening dysregulated host response to infection leading to organ dysfunction, remains challenging to quantify. We aimed to comprehensively estimate the global, regional, and national burden of sepsis, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and underlying causes of sepsis-related deaths with co-occurring infectious syndromes. We used multiple cause-of-death, hospital, minimally invasive tissue sampling, and linked death certificate and hospital record data representing 149 million deaths, covering 4290 location-years with mortality estimates from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors Study (GBD) 2021 to capture explicit and implicit sepsis cases and deaths. We estimated age-location-sex-specific fractions of sepsis-related deaths from 195 underlying causes of death and 22 infectious syndromes from 1990 to 2021 using binomial logistic regression models, and estimated sepsis-related deaths using GBD cause-specific mortality estimates. Using 250 million hospital admissions and 7·82 million deaths from hospital data, representing 1310 location-years, we modelled case fatality rates by use of binomial logistic regression, applied to sepsis death estimates to estimate sepsis incidence by age, location, and year. In 2021, we estimated 166 million (95% uncertainty interval 135-201) sepsis cases and 21·4 million (20·3-22·5) all-cause sepsis-related deaths globally, representing 31·5% of total global deaths. Sepsis-related deaths decreased between 1990 and 2019, followed by a surge in 2020 and 2021. As of 2021, individuals aged 15 years and older experienced increases across incidence (230%) and mortality (26·3%) since 1990. Those aged 70 years and older had the highest sepsis-related mortality in 2021 (9·28 million [8·74-9·86] deaths). Sepsis-related deaths from infectious underlying causes decreased from 11·8 million (11·1-12·5) in 1990 to 8·34 million (7·72-9·01) in 2019, then increased by 86·4% to 15·5 million (14·7-16·4) in 2021. Sepsis-related mortality due to non-infectious underlying causes of death increased from 4·69 million (4·35-5·05) in 1990 to 5·81 million (5·40-6·25) in 2021; the leading non-infectious underlying causes of death with sepsis were stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and cirrhosis. In 2021, bloodstream infections inclusive of HIV and malaria (3·08 million [2·83-3·35]) and lower respiratory infections inclusive of COVID-19 (11·33 million [1·20-1·47]) were the most prominent infectious syndromes complicating sepsis-related deaths from non-infectious underlying causes, representing a consistent trend since 1990. The global burden of sepsis increased in 2020 and 2021, reversing progress from 1990. Sepsis incidence and mortality increased in people aged 15 years and older, especially those aged 70 years and older, and as a complication of non-infectious underlying causes of death such as stroke, primarily through bloodstream infections and lower respiratory infections. The global burden of sepsis is substantial, and sepsis is increasingly a complication of non-infectious causes of death. Gates Foundation, Wellcome Trust, and Department of Health and Social Care using UK aid funding managed by the Fleming Fund."
Effect of Ambient Air Pollutants on Acute changes in Pulmonary Variables and Inflammatory Markers in Healthy Adults: A Pilot Study.,"Air pollution is associated with adverse health effects, particularly on respiratory and cardiovascular systems. Smog, prevalent in Northern India, contains particulate matter (PM10, PM2.5) and gaseous pollutants that can impair pulmonary function. Ambient air pollution can be quantified by the air quality index (AQI). Understanding the acute effects of air quality on respiratory physiology and inflammation is essential. A pilot prospective longitudinal observational study evaluated healthy volunteers during high (HAQI, AQI >350) and low pollution (LAQI, AQI <150) phases. Spirometry and impulse oscillometry (IOS) assessed lung function; and biomarkers (interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha) were measured from exhaled breath condensate (EBC) and serum. Paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed-rank tests were used for analysis. A total of 21 participants (mean age 25.4±7.4 years, female 33.3%, body mass index 23.9±3.5 kg/m Acute air pollution exposure impairs lung function and increases airway resistance in healthy adults. These findings underscore the need for larger longitudinal studies to clarify the mechanisms linking acute air pollution exposure to chronic health outcomes."
Exposome and the Prevention of Lung Diseases: A New Paradigm for Lung Health and Prevention.,
Participatory science to action: Radon literacy assessment and testing in an African American community.,"Low radon testing rates in communities of color are health concerns with possible elevated lung cancer risks. Our objective was to use a participatory science approach to assess environmental health literacy specific to radon, i.e., radon literacy, and testing practices in a primarily African American community in Atlanta, Georgia. A leadership team of two academic researchers and a community organization leader engaged an intergenerational group of residents that included one adult team lead, three community elders, and three youth as community scientists, who contributed to research design, survey administration, radon testing, and results dissemination. From March to October 2022, 167 homeowners (87 % African American) participated in radon testing and at-home surveys. A total of 154 valid tests were obtained with a mean radon level of 126 Bq/m"
Ambient PM,Ambient fine particulate matter (PM
"Community Factors and County-Level Cancer Screening, Prevalence, and Mortality.","Cancer screening, prevalence, and mortality vary across US counties; the broad set of community factors associated with these differences are not well understood. To assess the relative importance of diverse community measures for explaining county-level variance in cancer screening, prevalence, and mortality rates for breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancers. This geospatial cross-sectional analysis across all US counties used random forest algorithms to estimate the relative importance of 24 community measures-including health behaviors and lifestyle, socioeconomic, and environment factors-as explanatory factors for cancer screening, prevalence, and mortality. For each cancer, county-level cancer screening and prevalence rates were based on a nationally representative 5% sample of Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries (2020). The 5-year (2016-2020) mean mortality rates were from the National Cancer Institute's State Cancer Profiles. Neiman Cancer disparity maps geospatially display significant community-factor to cancer-outcome associations via county-level choropleth maps. Data were analyzed from September 2024 through February 2025. Residence in the 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. Outcomes were county-level rates of cancer screening, prevalence, and mortality for breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancers. Separate random forest algorithms estimated the relative importance of 24 community measures for each outcome-cancer type combination, and maps display county-level associations. Among a nationally representative 5% of 2020 Medicare Fee-For-Service beneficiaries, 87% were aged 65 years or older. The top ranking explanatory community factors (100% relative importance) for mortality were smoking rate for both lung and colorectal cancers, and the non-Hispanic Black population share for both breast and prostate cancers. For prevalence and screening rates, the top factors were unique for each cancer type. Uninsured rate, unemployment, limited access to health foods, and poor physical health were the top ranked factors for breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer prevalence, respectively. Hispanic population, poverty, air pollution, and Air Toxics Cancer Risk were ranked highest for screening rates, respectively, for each cancer. Two of only 3 environmental factors, Environmental Justice Index and Air Toxics Cancer Risk, had the most top-5 associations for mortality and screening, respectively. Uninsured rates for prevalence and poverty rates for screening were also important across cancer types. In this cross-sectional study of the relative explanatory importance of community measures on cancer screening, prevalence, and mortality rate we found that the ranking of factors varied for each specific cancer and outcome, which can inform targeted population health efforts. Factors that ranked high across cancer types for a given outcome, such as uninsured rates for cancer prevalence, represent opportune targets for future study and broader policy change."
Episodic ozone exposure over two weeks alters pulmonary inflammation and gene expression in Long-Evans rats.,"Elevated exposure to ozone (O Male, Long-Evans rats were exposed for either two days or two weeks of episodic exposure to 0.4 or 0.8 ppm O Concentration-dependent effects of O Aspects of the adaptation response were still present in rats episodically exposed to O"
Lung microbiomes' variable responses to dust exposure in mouse models of asthma.,"Inhalation of dust is significant and relevant to health effects. As pollution and climate change worsen in dryland regions, wind currents entrain loose sediment and dust. This potentially disperses toxic geochemical and microbial burdens throughout the region. When inhaled environmental dust and host-associated microbiomes mingle, they pose exposure risks to host respiratory health. The Salton Sea, California's largest lake, is shrinking, thus exposing nearby communities to playa dust. Therefore, we analyze the effect of Salton Sea dust exposure in murine models to relate lung microbial communities and respiratory health. We used an environmental chamber to expose mice to dust filtrate or ambient air and examined the effects of those exposures on lung microbiomes. We found that lung microbial composition varied by dust exposure. Furthermore, dust elicited neutrophil recruitment and immune responses more than mice exposed to ambient air. Sources of dust differentially affected the composition of the lung core microbiome. Lung microbial diversity correlated with neutrophil recruitment as lungs associated with inflammatory responses harbored more diverse microbiomes. Although Salton Sea dust influences dust microbiomes and prevalent taxa, these responses are variable. The composition of lungs exposed to dust collected further from the Salton Sea was more similar to lungs from ambient air exposures; in contrast, dust collected near the Salton Sea yielded lung microbiomes that clustered further from lungs exposed to ambient air. As lakes continue to dry out, we expect greater public health risks in proximal dryland regions, which may correlate with dust microbial dispersal-related changes to lung microbiomes. Dust inhalation can lead to health effects, especially when toxic chemicals and microbes mix in with the dust particles. As California's Salton Sea dries up, it exposes lake bottom sediments to wind, which disperses the dried sediments. To mimic the effect of inhaling Salton Sea dust, we collected and filtered airborne dust to use in exposure experiments with mice in environmental chambers. We predicted that inhaling small dust particles, chemicals, and microbial residues found in this dust would affect mouse respiratory health or change the microbes found inside their lungs. We found that inhaling dust led to lung inflammation, and the dust source influenced the type of microbes found inside mouse lungs. As lakes continue to dry out, we expect greater health risks and changes to lung microbiomes."
"Survival among patients with cancer after a coalmine fire: analysis of registry data in regional Victoria, Australia.","In 2014, a bushfire ignited the Hazelwood coalmine in regional Victoria, Australia, shrouding nearby communities in smoke for 6 weeks. In this study, we examined whether survival decreased among people with cancer in smoke-exposed areas. We identified cancers diagnosed between January 2009 and February 2014, the start of the coalmine fire, from the Victorian Cancer Registry. Tumours were grouped by location as well as subtypes for breast and lung cancers. Smoke exposure was determined by the daily average of PM There was no detectable effect of fire-related PM We found limited evidence that smoke from the Hazelwood coal mine fire reduced survival among people living with cancer. The association with reduced survival among women with breast cancer may be a chance finding. However, this does not rule out an effect and further analyses should follow when more data become available or following other similar disasters."
Equity in Respiratory Health: Actionable Recommendations for Spain.,"Chronic respiratory diseases are a major public health burden, affecting over 7 million people in Spain and representing the third leading cause of death. Conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, and lung cancer are heavily influenced by social and environmental determinants, including socioeconomic status, air quality, and smoking. Moreover, the increasingly aging Spanish population and persistent urban pollution levels further expand the burden of these diseases. This article underscores the urgent need to address inequities in respiratory healthcare through comprehensive policy action. To this end, we herein propose measures such as strengthening primary care to ensure early diagnosis, enhancing coordination between community pharmacy, primary and hospital care, incorporating specialised roles such as continuity-of-care nurses, prioritising access to cost-effective innovative treatments, promoting healthy environments, and reinforcing anti-smoking initiatives. We also advocate for inclusion of social determinants of health indicators in electronic health records and for development of patient education programmes. Tackling respiratory health disparities requires targeted strategies that involve all healthcare and social stakeholders to optimise resource use and improve the quality of life of patients with respiratory diseases in Spain. Las enfermedades respiratorias crónicas representan una importante carga para la salud pública, afectando a más de siete millones de personas en España, y constituyendo la tercera causa de muerte. Afecciones como la enfermedad pulmonar obstructiva crónica (EPOC), el asma y el cáncer de pulmón están fuertemente condicionadas por determinantes sociales y medioambientales, entre los que se incluyen el nivel socioeconómico, la calidad del aire y el tabaquismo. Además, el progresivo envejecimiento de la población española y los persistentes niveles de contaminación urbana agravan aún más esta carga. El presente artículo subraya la necesidad urgente de abordar las desigualdades en la atención respiratoria mediante una acción política integral. Con este objetivo, se proponen medidas como el refuerzo de la atención primaria para garantizar un diagnóstico precoz, la mejora de la coordinación entre la farmacia comunitaria, la atención primaria y hospitalaria, la incorporación de roles especializados como las enfermeras de continuidad asistencial, la priorización del acceso a tratamientos innovadores coste-efectivos, la promoción de entornos saludables y el refuerzo de las iniciativas antitabaco. Asimismo, se aboga por la inclusión de indicadores de los determinantes sociales de la salud en las historias clínicas electrónicas, y por el desarrollo de programas de educación para pacientes. Abordar las desigualdades en salud respiratoria requiere estrategias específicas que involucren a todos los agentes sanitarios y sociales, con el fin de optimizar el uso de recursos, y mejorar la calidad de vida de los pacientes con enfermedades respiratorias en España."
"Traditional medicine, environmental exposures, and cultural practices in cancer risk: insights from low- and middle-income countries.","Cancer is a growing public health concern in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), influenced by cultural practices, environmental exposures, and dependence on traditional medicine in addition to biological risk factors. Evidence from peer-reviewed publications published between 2010 and 2025 was combined in this narrative review. According to studies, traditional and complementary medicine (T&CM) is used by 35% to 79% of cancer patients in LMICs, which frequently delays biomedical treatment and complicates care. Over 2.4 billion people use biomass fuels for household air pollution (HAP), which has been associated with a two- to three-fold increased risk of lung cancer, especially in women. Furthermore, tobacco smoking contributes to about 2.7 million new cases of cancer in less developed areas each year, highlighting ongoing exposure to avoidable dangers. Findings show that the cancer burden in LMICs is further exacerbated by poor food storage, alcohol use, pesticide exposure, unregulated consumer chemicals, and stigma. These cultural and environmental factors must be addressed in preventative initiatives in addition to biological therapy. Strengthening T&CM regulations, enhancing food safety, upholding alcohol and tobacco legislation, lowering exposures at work and in the home, and introducing culturally-based education to dispel stigma and myths are among the top priorities. This is a narrative review rather than a systematic one; the goal is to map thematic evidence throughout Africa, Asia, and Latin America, providing insights for policy design. Integrated, context-specific, and community-driven approaches are required to eliminate inequities and promote equitable cancer control in LMICs."
