title,abstract
Socioeconomic impact on quality of care in pelvic gynecological cancers.,"Several European studies have shown health-related social inequalities in pelvic gynecological cancers, with a social gradient in incidence and mortality, partly explained by more advanced stages at diagnosis in low socioeconomic populations. Disparities in treatment and quality of care in these patients could be another cause of inequality in care. This study evaluates the impact of socioeconomic factors on quality of care for pelvic gynecological cancers (adnexal, uterine corpus, and cervix). This retrospective multicentric cohort study included women diagnosed with pelvic gynecological invasive cancer, between January 1 and December 31, 2022, in six university hospitals in North Paris. Two socioeconomic indicators, the FDep index and the Evaluation of Deprivation and Inequalities in Health Examination Centers (EPICES) score, were collected. The quality of care was assessed using a binary quality indicator based on selected European Society of Gynecological Oncology (ESGO) quality indicators for each cancer. We compared the ""Non-adherence to Quality Indicator"" (NAQI) group, where one or more of the ESGO quality indicators were not met, to the ""Adherence to Quality Indicator"" (AQI) group using univariate analysis. An analysis of the time to first treatment, according to FDep and EPICES groups, using a Kaplan-Meier, estimation was completed. A total of 189 patients were included: 50 with ovarian cancer, 76 with endometrial cancer, and 63 with cervical cancer. Ninety-nine patients (52.4%) belonged to the NAQI group and 90 patients (46.7%) to the AQI group. Patients were significantly in poorer general condition and presented more advanced Federation International of Gynecology Obstetrics (FIGO) stages in the NAQI than in the AQI group (ASA score 3-4: 20/84 [23.8%] vs. 5/76 (6.6%), P < 0.01 and FIGO III-IV stage: 55/99 [55.6%] vs. 35/90 [38.9%], P = 0.03). There was no significant difference for socioeconomic indicators between the NAQI and the AQI groups (FDep quintiles 3-4-5 = 41/99 (41.4%) vs. FDep quintiles 1-2 = 39/90 (43.3%), P = 0.91; EPICES score ≤ 30 = 31/63 (49.2%) vs. EPICES score > 30 = 21/51 (41.2%), P = 0.50). According to FDep and EPICES groups, we found no difference in the time to first treatment. We found no socioeconomic impact on hospital quality of care in pelvic gynecological cancers."
Adverse Health Consequences of Poor Air Quality in Nepal: A Wake-Up Call.,"Literatures shows that poor air quality index (AQI) is associated with several adverse health impacts, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, tuberculosis, cancer, pneumonia, cataracts, heart diseases, and mental health disorders. Nepal, one of the lower-middle-income countries, has become vulnerable to adverse health impacts due to poor AQI over time. The capital city of Nepal, Kathmandu, is frequently placed as one of the most polluted cities by IQAir. As such, this statement marks a caution for policymakers and the public to be aware of the future effects of prolonged exposure to air pollution and highlights its causative factors. To solve this burgeoning issue, because of the significant rise in urbanization and population growth, mitigation strategies such as creating awareness, reducing vehicular emission, reducing forest fires, creating and identifying vulnerability maps risk zones for forest fires, switching to electronic vehicles and personal interventions such as staying indoors and reducing physical outdoor activity, wearing face masks must be focused and given priority. Although our study is limited in its methodology and findings, it helps establish a policy base to underscore the need for longitudinal cohort studies to generate further evidences pertaining to not up to par air quality levels and their subsequent health impacts in the Nepalese population."
Efficiency Analysis Based on Two-Stage Undesirable Dynamic SBM Model.,"In previous studies exploring the causes of lung cancer, smoking has long been recognized as the primary risk factor, while the impact of air pollution has been relatively overlooked. This is particularly true in Asia, where efficiency evaluation studies examining the relationship between industrial and transportation-related pollution and lung cancer remain limited. Moreover, existing literature often relies on static or single-stage models, with limited integration of dynamic and multi-stage approaches to capture the complex interactions between pollution and health outcomes. This study is the first to apply a Two-stage Undesirable Dynamic SBM model to analyze the efficiency relationship between air pollution and lung cancer, using 22 counties and cities in Taiwan as DMUs. It systematically evaluates the ""production and environment efficiency"" in the first stage and the ""life health and well-being efficiency"" in the second stage. By addressing a significant gap in Asian research on pollution-related lung cancer efficiency, this study also develops an analytical framework with high relevance for policy applications. The model provides robust empirical evidence to support government initiatives in promoting precision health and sustainable development goals (SDG 3 and SDG 11)."
The Impact of Air Quality on Patient Mortality: A National Study.,
"Impact of short-term air pollution exposure on premature rupture of membranes in the North China Plain, 2015-2021: a multicity case-crossover study.","The effects of short-term air pollution exposure on hospital admissions for premature rupture of membranes (PROM) were still controversial. Daily data on PROM hospitalisations and air pollutants were collected from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2021, across five cities in the North China Plain. We investigated the associations between short-term (lag0-7) exposure to air pollutants, including fine particulate matter (PM A total of 16 503 mothers with PROM were included. For each interquartile range (IQR) increase, the strongest relative risks (RRs) were 1.024 (95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.001-1.047, P < 0.05) in PM Short-term air pollution exposure was related to elevated hospital risk of PROM. The effects were more pronounced among mothers aged <35 years and during the warm season."
Quantum-computing-enhanced algorithm unveils potential KRAS inhibitors.,"We introduce a quantum-classical generative model for small-molecule design, specifically targeting KRAS inhibitors for cancer therapy. We apply the method to design, select and synthesize 15 proposed molecules that could notably engage with KRAS for cancer therapy, with two holding promise for future development as inhibitors. This work showcases the potential of quantum computing to generate experimentally validated hits that compare favorably against classical models."
Burning of municipal waste in household furnaces and the health of their owners.,"The aim of the study was to determine the scale of emission and airborne dispersion of selected pollutants (PM2.5, PM10, TVOC, HCHO) associated with the combustion of various types of municipal waste (MW), its mixed stream and separate fractions, in a household furnace, as compared to conventional (CF) and alternative (AF) fuels. We demonstrated that each type of fuel (AF, CF, AFw) combusted in a household furnace is a significant source of air pollutants, especially fine PM2.5 particles, whose concentrations exceeded the limit values (3.1-17.2 times for PM2.5 and 0.5-7.4 times for PM10). The combustion of MW in household furnaces generated higher levels of PM2.5 (up to 345 µg/m"
Understanding canine oral neoplasia: intrinsic rather than extrinsic features represent key risk factors in a 39-year analysis.,"Canine oral neoplasia is often detected late in the course of the disease, necessitating radical surgeries frequently combined with adjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy for positive outcomes. Although there has been extensive analytical and epidemiologic work on human oral cancer, research in veterinary medicine has been lacking. This study aimed to evaluate the prevalence and risk factors associated with canine oral neoplasia to enhance early detection by improving screening. Patient data from 1985 to 2024 from the University of California-Davis Veterinary Teaching Hospital were bulk extracted to determine prevalence as well as the effect of clinical and environmental risk factors, including sex, breed, oral location, air quality, and periodontal disease status. The median air quality index (AQI) data were extrapolated from the Environmental Protection Agency's database. Periodontal disease status was evaluated on patient CT scans. The incidence of oral tumors was 4.59/1,000 patients. The median age upon diagnosis was 9.66 years, and 3 breeds were identified as significantly at risk compared to the general patient population. Air quality index, geographical location, and periodontal disease were not associated with oral neoplasia. Different tumor histologies had distinct oral predilection sites. Overall, there was a significant correlation between age/breed and oral neoplasms. Tumor locations were significantly different for each pathology. Other risk factors did not play a substantial role in disease. These findings can aid veterinarians and researchers in targeting screening and treatment strategies in high-risk dogs."
Association between Air Quality Index and the risk of rosacea: a nationwide population-based cohort study.,"Air pollution is associated with several inflammatory skin disorders. However, the association between air quality and rosacea remains unclear. To investigate the association between the Air Quality Index (AQI) and incidence of rosacea. In total, 21 709 479 participants without rosacea before 2008 were recruited from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. The long-term average AQI value for each participant was acquired from the Taiwan Air Quality Monitoring System Network and calculated from 1 January 2008 until the diagnosis of rosacea, withdrawal from the National Health Insurance programme, or 31 December 2018. We observed a significant association between AQI and the incidence of rosacea, with each unit elevation in the AQI increasing the risk of rosacea by 5%. We then categorized participants equally into four groups by quantiles (Q) of AQI values, with mean AQI values of: Q1, 69.0 (SD 6.4); Q2, 79.0 (SD 2.3); Q3, 89.9 (SD 3.6); and Q4, 103.9 (SD 6.8). Compared with the Q1 group, the Q2, Q3 and Q4 cohorts exhibited 1.82-fold, 4.48-fold and 7.22-fold increased risk of rosacea, respectively. Additionally, exposure to particulate matter (PM)2.5 (airborne particulate matter with a diameter ≤ 2.5 μm), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and carbon monoxide increased the risk of rosacea, whereas exposure to PM10 (airborne PM with a diameter ≤ 10 μm) was associated with a lower risk. This study supported a significant dose-response relationship between AQI and the incidence of rosacea."
"Spatiotemporal changes in fine particulate matter and ozone in the oasis city of Korla, northeastern Tarim Basin of China.","Air pollution is a serious environmental health concern for humans and other living organisms. This study analyzes the spatial and temporal characteristics of air pollutant concentrations, changes in the degree of pollution, and the wavelet coherence of the air quality index (AQI) with pollutants in various monitoring stations. The analysis is based on long-term time series data (January 2016 to December 2023) of air pollutants (PM"
Association of air quality index (AQI) with incidence of atopic dermatitis in Taiwan: A nationwide population-based cohort study.,"Air pollutants may aggravate atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the association between Air Quality Index (AQI) and incidence of AD remains unknown. To investigate association between AQI and incidence of AD, using the nationwide cohort in the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD). We included 21,278,938 participants from the NHIRD not diagnosed with AD before 2008. Long-term average AQI value, obtained from the Taiwan Air Quality Monitoring System Network, before AD diagnosis was calculated and linked for each participant. 199,205 incident cases of AD were identified from 2008 to 2018. Participants were classified into 4 quantiles (Q) by AQI value. With the lowest quantile, Q1, as reference, the AD risk increased significantly in the Q2 group (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR]: 1.29, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04-1.65), Q3 group (aHR: 4.71, 95% CI: 3.78-6.04), and was highest in the Q4 group (aHR: 13.20, 95% CI: 10.86-16.60). As AQI treated as a continuous variable, an increase of 1 unit of AQI value added 7% of AD risk (aHR, 1.07, 95% CI: 1.07-1.08). The NHIRD lacks detailed information on individual subjects. The results demonstrated a significant positive association between AQI and incidence of AD with a clear dose-response relationship."
Exploring the relationship between air quality index and lung cancer mortality in India: predictive modeling and impact assessment.,"The Air Quality Index (AQI) in India is steadily deteriorating, leading to a rise in the mortality rate due to Lung Cancer. This decline in air quality can be attributed to various factors such as PM 2.5, PM 10, and Ozone (O3). To establish a relationship between AQI and Lung Cancer, several predictive models including Linear Regression, KNN, Decision Tree, ANN, Random Forest Regression, and XGBoost Regression were employed to estimate pollutant levels and Air Quality Index in India. The models relied on publicly available state-wise Air Pollution Dataset. Among all the models, the XGBoost Regression displayed the highest accuracy, with pollutant level estimations reaching an accuracy range of 81% to 98% during training and testing. The second-highest accuracy range was achieved by Random Forest. The paper also explores the impact of increasing pollution levels on the rising mortality rate among lung cancer patients in India."
Assessing the effectiveness of artificial neural networks (ANN) and multiple linear regressions (MLR) in forcasting AQI and PM10 and evaluating health impacts through AirQ+ (case study: Tehran).,Air pollution is one of the major concerns for the population and the environment due to its hazardous effects. PM
"Analgesia quality index improves the quality of postoperative pain management: a retrospective observational study of 14,747 patients between 2014 and 2021.","The application of artificial intelligence patient-controlled analgesia (AI-PCA) facilitates the remote monitoring of analgesia management, the implementation of mobile ward rounds, and the automatic recording of all types of key data in the clinical setting. However, it cannot quantify the quality of postoperative analgesia management. This study aimed to establish an index (analgesia quality index (AQI)) to re-monitor and re-evaluate the system, equipment, medical staff and degree of patient matching to quantify the quality of postoperative pain management through machine learning. Utilizing the wireless analgesic pump system database of the Cancer Hospital Affiliated with Nantong University, this retrospective observational study recruited consecutive patients who underwent postoperative analgesia using AI-PCA from June 1, 2014, to August 31, 2021. All patients were grouped according to whether or not the AQI was used to guide the management of postoperative analgesia: The control group did not receive the AQI guidance for postoperative analgesia and the experimental group received the AQI guidance for postoperative analgesia. The primary outcome was the incidence of moderate-to-severe pain (numeric rating scale (NRS) score ≥ 4) and the second outcome was the incidence of total adverse reactions. Furthermore, indicators of AQI were recorded. A total of 14,747 patients were included in this current study. The incidence of moderate-to-severe pain was 26.3% in the control group and 21.7% in the experimental group. The estimated ratio difference was 4.6% between the two groups (95% confidence interval [CI], 3.2% to 6.0%; P < 0.001). There were significant differences between groups. Otherwise, the differences in the incidence of total adverse reactions between the two groups were nonsignificant. Compared to the traditional management of postoperative analgesia, application of the AQI decreased the incidence of moderate-to-severe pain. Clinical application of the AQI contributes to improving the quality of postoperative analgesia management and may provide guidance for optimum pain management in the postoperative setting."
Air quality prediction by machine learning models: A predictive study on the indian coastal city of Visakhapatnam.,"Clean air is critical component for health and survival of human and wildlife, as atmospheric pollution is associated with a number of significant diseases including cancer. However, due to rapid industrialization and population growth, activities such as transportation, household, agricultural, and industrial processes contribute to air pollution. As a result, air pollution has become a significant problem in many cities, especially in emerging countries like India. To maintain ambient air quality, regular monitoring and forecasting of air pollution is necessary. For that purpose, machine learning has emerged as a promising technique for predicting the Air Quality Index (AQI) compared to conventional methods. Here we apply the AQI to the city of Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India, focusing on 12 contaminants and 10 meteorological parameters from July 2017 to September 2022. For this purpose, we employed several machine learning models, including LightGBM, Random Forest, Catboost, Adaboost, and XGBoost. The results show that the Catboost model outperformed other models with an R"
An Intelligent IoT-Cloud-Based Air Pollution Forecasting Model Using Univariate Time-Series Analysis.,"Air pollution is a significant environmental issue affecting public health and ecosystems worldwide, resulting from various sources such as industrial activities, vehicle emissions, and fossil fuel burning. Air pollution contributes to climate change and can cause several health problems, such as respiratory illnesses, cardiovascular disease, and cancer. A potential solution to this problem has been proposed by using different artificial intelligence (AI) and time-series models. These models are implemented in the cloud environment to forecast the Air Quality Index (AQI) utilizing Internet of things (IoT) devices. The recent influx of IoT-enabled time-series air pollution data poses challenges for traditional models. Various approaches have been explored to forecast AQI in the cloud environment using IoT devices. The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of an IoT-Cloud-based model for forecasting the AQI under different meteorological conditions. To achieve this, we proposed a novel BO-HyTS approach that combines seasonal autoregressive integrated moving average (SARIMA) and long short-term memory (LSTM) and fine-tuned it by using Bayesian optimization to predict air pollution levels. The proposed BO-HyTS model can capture both linear and nonlinear characteristics of the time-series data, thus augmenting the accuracy of the forecasting process. Additionally, several AQI forecasting models, including classical time-series, machine learning, and deep learning, are employed to forecast air quality from time-series data. Five statistical evaluation metrics are incorporated to evaluate the effectiveness of models. While comparing the various algorithms among themselves becomes difficult, a non-parametric statistical significance test (Friedman test) is applied to assess the performance of the different machine learning, time-series, and deep learning models. The findings reveal that the proposed BO-HyTS model produced significantly better results than their competitor's, providing the most accurate and efficient forecasting model, with an MSE of 632.200, RMSE of 25.14, Med AE of 19.11, Max Error of 51.52, and MAE of 20.49. The results of this study provide insights into the future patterns of AQI in various Indian states and set a standard for these states as governments develop their healthcare policies accordingly. The proposed BO-HyTS model has the potential to inform policy decisions and enable governments and organizations to protect better and manage the environment beforehand."
"Evaluation of the health risk using multi-pollutant air quality health index: case study in Tianjin, China.","Air pollution imposes a significant burden on public health. Compared with the popular air quality index (AQI), the air quality health index (AQHI) provides a more comprehensive approach to measuring mixtures of air pollutants and is suitable for overall assessments of the short-term health effects of such mixtures. We established an AQHI and cumulative risk index (CRI)-AQHI for Tianjin using single-and multi-pollutant models, respectively, as well as environmental, meteorological, and daily mortality data of residents in Tianjin between 2018 and 2020. Compared with the AQI, the AQHI and CRI-AQHI established herein correlated more closely with the exposure-response relationships of the total mortality effects on residents. For each increase in the interquartile range of the AQHI, CRI-AQHI and AQI, the total daily mortality rates increased by 2.06, 1.69 and 0.62%, respectively. The AQHI and CRI-AQHI predicted daily mortality rate of residents more effectively than the AQI, and the correlations of AQHI and CRI-AQHI with health were similar. Our AQHI of Tianjin was used to establish specific (S)-AQHIs for different disease groups. The results showed that all measured air pollutants had the greatest impact on the health of persons with chronic respiratory diseases, followed by lung cancer, and cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. The AQHI of Tianjin established in this study was accurate and dependable for assessing short-term health risks of air pollution in Tianjin, and the established S-AQHI can be used to separately assess health risks among different disease groups."
Critical air pollutant assessments and health effects attributed to PM,"The aim of this study was to evaluate changes in air quality index (AQI) values before, during, and after lockdown, as well as to evaluate the number of hospitalizations due to respiratory and cardiovascular diseases attributed to atmospheric PM Daily air quality records were obtained from the global air quality index project and the US Environmental Protection Administration (EPA). In this research, the AirQ+ model was used to quantify health consequences attributed to particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of <2.5 μm (PM The results of this study showed positive correlations between air pollution levels and reductions in pollutant levels during and after the lockdown. PM Our results support the general finding that anthropogenic activities cause significant health threats, which were paradoxically revealed during a global health crisis/challenge."
"Spatial distribution and influencing factors of thyroid cancer hospitalization rate among rural residents in Fujian Province, China from 2012 to 2016.","This study aimed to explore the spatial distribution and influencing factors of thyroid cancer hospitalization rates in Fujian Province from 2012 to 2016. Hospitalization reimbursement records for thyroid cancer were obtained from 2025 hospitals in Fujian Province from 2012 to 2016. The Moran's I method was used for spatial autocorrelation analysis and to further draw a spatial cluster map in Fujian. Geographic detectors were used to explore the effect of risk factors on spatial heterogeneity of inpatient service utilization for thyroid cancer. The study showed that there was obvious temporal and spatial heterogeneity in the utilization rate of inpatient services for thyroid cancer in Fujian Province, which were mainly concentrated in Fuzhou, with Lianjiang County as the center, and the gathering area involves 26 counties and cities. Among a variety of environmental factors, air quality index (AQI) (q = 0.481), carbon sequestration (q = 0.161), and carbon emissions (q = 0.155) were the main factors affecting the hospitalization rates. AQI and carbon emissions were generally positively correlated with hospitalization rates, and carbon sequestration was negatively correlated. After the interaction of the two factors, the interpretation of the hospitalization rate was enhanced. The obvious spatial heterogeneity will help the relevant departments to adjust measures to local conditions and allocate medical resources rationally to ease the pressure of seeking medical attention in high-demand areas."
Life-course exposure to air pollution and biological ageing in the Lothian Birth Cohort 1936.,"Exposure to air pollution is associated with a range of diseases. Biomarkers derived from DNA methylation (DNAm) offer potential mechanistic insights into human health differences, connecting disease pathogenesis and biological ageing. However, little is known about sensitive periods during the life course where air pollution might have a stronger impact on DNAm, or whether effects accumulate over time. We examined associations between air pollution exposure across the life course and DNAm-based markers of biological ageing. Data were derived from the Scotland-based Lothian Birth Cohort 1936. Participants' residential history was linked to annual levels of fine particle (PM We included 525 individuals with 1782 observations. In the total sample, increased air pollution around 1970 was associated with higher epigenetic age (AQI: b = 0.322 year, 95 %CI: 0.088, 0.555) measured with Horvath DNAmAge in late adulthood. We found shorter DNAmTL among males with higher air pollution around 1980 (AQI: b = -0.015 kilobase, 95 %CI: -0.027, -0.004) and among females with higher exposure around 1935 (AQI: b = -0.017 kilobase, 95 %CI: -0.028, -0.006). Findings were more consistent for the pollutants PM We tested the life-course relationship between air pollution and DNAm-based biomarkers. Air pollution around birth and in young-to-middle adulthood is linked to accelerated epigenetic ageing and telomere-associated ageing in later life."
Wildfire Impact on Indoor and Outdoor PAH Air Quality.,"Air quality impacts from wildfires are poorly understood, particularly indoors. As frequencies increase, it is important to optimize methodologies to understand and reduce chemical exposures from wildfires. Public health recommendations use air quality estimates from outdoor stationary air monitors, discounting indoor air conditions, and do not consider chemicals in the vapor phase, known to elicit adverse effects. We investigated vapor-phase polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in indoor and outdoor air before, during, and after wildfires using a community-engaged research approach. Paired passive air samplers were deployed at 15 locations across four states. Twelve unique PAHs were detected only in outdoor air during wildfires, highlighting a PAH exposure mixture for future study. Heavy-molecular-weight (HMW) outdoor PAH concentrations and average Air Quality Index (AQI) values were positively correlated ("
Towards Integrated Air Pollution Monitoring and Health Impact Assessment Using Federated Learning: A Systematic Review.,"Environmental issues such as environmental pollutions and climate change are the impacts of globalization and become debatable issues among academics and industry key players. One of the environmental issues which is air pollution has been catching attention among industrialists, researchers, and communities around the world. However, it has always neglected until the impacts on human health become worse, and at times, irreversible. Human exposure to air pollutant such as particulate matters, sulfur dioxide, ozone and carbon monoxide contributed to adverse health hazards which result in respiratory diseases, cardiorespiratory diseases, cancers, and worst, can lead to death. This has led to a spike increase of hospitalization and emergency department visits especially at areas with worse pollution cases that seriously impacting human life and health. To address this alarming issue, a predictive model of air pollution is crucial in assessing the impacts of health due to air pollution. It is also critical in predicting the air quality index when assessing the risk contributed by air pollutant exposure. Hence, this systemic review explores the existing studies on anticipating air quality impact to human health using the advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AI). From the extensive review, we highlighted research gaps in this field that are worth to inquire. Our study proposes to develop an AI-based integrated environmental and health impact assessment system using federated learning. This is specifically aims to identify the association of health impact and pollution based on socio-economic activities and predict the Air Quality Index (AQI) for impact assessment. The output of the system will be utilized for hospitals and healthcare services management and planning. The proposed solution is expected to accommodate the needs of the critical and prioritization of sensitive group of publics during pollution seasons. Our finding will bring positive impacts to the society in terms of improved healthcare services quality, environmental and health sustainability. The findings are beneficial to local authorities either in healthcare or environmental monitoring institutions especially in the developing countries."
Elevated air quality index and fine particulate matter levels contribute to the poor prognosis and progression of nonsmall-cell lung cancer: A cohort study combined with external validation.,"Poor air quality can result in a variety of respiratory disorders. However, the air quality index (AQI) and the level of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) on the progression and prognosis of nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are unclear. We launched a cohort study focused on the relationship between air quality and overall survival as well as progression, incorporating data from 590 patients with NSCLC in our medical center between November 1, 2013 and March 1, 2016. Forty-nine patients from Sichuan Cancer Hospital were used for validation. Cases with poorer AQI 6 months before NSCLC diagnosis were more likely to progress to stage III to IV NSCLC than controls (OR = 2.61, 95% CI 1.35-5.24, p = 0.005). Similarly, if exposed to high levels of PM2.5 during these 6 months, overall survival was poor (HR [95% CI] = 1.53 [1.13, 2.07], p = 0.006). According to multivariate analysis, age, gender, KPS, PM2.5, hyperlipemia, and NSCLC stage were independent risk factors of overall survival. A predictive model developed by these factors above yielded a favorable agreement (C-index = 0.758) on the calibration curve. External validation was conducted by 46 patients from Sichuan Cancer Hospital displaying an AUC of 0.724 (0.684-0.763). PM2.5 and AQI levels affect disease progression and long-term survival in NSCLC patients. An overall survival prediction model based on the PM2.5 level can help clinicians predict the risk of death in NSCLC."
Pollution characteristics and human health risk assessments of toxic metals and particle pollutants via soil and air using geoinformation in urbanized city of Pakistan.,"Toxic metals and particle pollutants in urbanized cities have significantly increased over the past few decades mainly due to rapid urbanization and unplanned infrastructure. This research aimed at estimating the concentration of toxic metals and particle pollutants and the associated risks to public health across different land-use settings including commercial area (CA), urban area (UA), residential area (RA), and industrial area (IA). A total of 47 samples for both soil and air were collected from different land-use settings of Faisalabad city in Pakistan. Mean concentrations of toxic metals such as Mn, Zn, Pb, Ni, Cr, Co, and Cd in all land-use settings were 92.68, 4.06, 1.34, 0.16, 0.07, 0.03, and 0.02 mg kg"
CD25-T,"Intratumoral regulatory T cell (Treg) abundance associates with diminished anti-tumor immunity and poor prognosis in human cancers. Recent work demonstrates that CD25, the high affinity receptor subunit for IL-2, is a selective target for Treg depletion in mouse and human malignancies; however, anti-human CD25 antibodies have failed to deliver clinical responses against solid tumors due to bystander IL-2 receptor signaling blockade on effector T cells, which limits their anti-tumor activity. Here we demonstrate potent single-agent activity of anti-CD25 antibodies optimized to deplete Tregs whilst preserving IL-2-STAT5 signaling on effector T cells, and demonstrate synergy with immune checkpoint blockade in vivo. Pre-clinical evaluation of an anti-human CD25 (RG6292) antibody with equivalent features demonstrates, in both non-human primates and humanized mouse models, efficient Treg depletion with no overt immune-related toxicities. Our data supports the clinical development of RG6292 and evaluation of novel combination therapies incorporating non-IL-2 blocking anti-CD25 antibodies in clinical studies."
Trends in Peripheral Nerve Block Usage in Mastectomy and Lumpectomy: Analysis of a National Database From 2010 to 2018.,"Compared to general anesthesia, regional anesthesia confers several benefits including improved pain control and decreased postoperative opioid consumption. While the benefits of peripheral nerve blocks (PNB) have been well studied, there are little epidemiological data on PNB usage in mastectomy and lumpectomy procedures. The primary objective of our study was to assess national trends of the annual proportion of PNB use in breast surgery from 2010 to 2018. We also identified factors associated with PNB use for breast surgery. We identified lumpectomy and mastectomy surgical cases with and without PNB between 2010 and 2018 using the Anesthesia Quality Institute National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry (AQI NACOR). We modeled the nonlinear association between year of procedure and PNB use with segmented mixed-effects logistic regression clustered on facility identifier. The association between PNB use and year of procedure, age, sex, American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status (ASA PS), facility type, facility region, weekday, and tissue expander use was also modeled using mixed-effects logistic regression. Of the 189,854 surgical cases from 2010 to 2018 that met criteria, 86.2% were lumpectomy cases and 13.8% were mastectomy cases. The proportion of lumpectomy cases with PNB was <0.1% in 2010 and increased each subsequent year to 1.9% in 2018 (trend P < .0001). The proportion of mastectomy cases with PNB was 0.5% in 2010 and 13% in 2018 (trend P < .0001). The year 2014 was the breakpoint selected for segmented regression. Before 2014, the odds of PNB among the mastectomy cases was not significantly different from year to year. After 2014, the odds of PNB increased by 2.24-fold each year (95% confidence interval [CI], 2.00-2.49; P < .001); interaction test for pre-2014 versus post-2014 was P < .001. Similar trends were seen in the lumpectomy cases, where after 2014, the odds of PNB increased by 2.03-fold (95% CI, 1.81-2.27; P < .001); interaction test for pre-2014 versus post-2014 was P < .001. In the mastectomy cohort, year of procedure ≥2014, female sex, facility region, and tissue expander use were associated with higher odds of PNB. For lumpectomy cases, year of procedure ≥2014 and facility region were associated with higher odds of PNB use. We found increased annual utilization of PNB for mastectomy and lumpectomy since 2010, although absolute prevalence is low. PNB use was associated with year of procedure for both lumpectomy and mastectomy, particularly post-2014."
Two birds with one stone: oyster mushroom mediated bimetallic Au-Pt nanoparticles for agro-waste management and anticancer activity.,"Agriculture has the most significant contribution in fulfilling the basic human need, sustaining life, and strengthening the economy of any country. To feed the exploding population of the world, there has been a quantum jump in the production of agricultural commodities, which has led to the production of a substantial considerable quantity of agricultural and agro-industrial wastes. The bulks of these wastes are lignocellulosic in nature and consist of three main polymeric constituents, i.e., cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin, which are recalcitrant. The primary significant portions of these remain unutilized and are burnt in the field, leading to severe environmental aggression and wastage of resource. Farmers across the globe, including India, burn these agricultural wastes in their thousands of acre land, which contribute to spoiling the air quality index (AQI). This is very harmful, especially to children, pregnant women, old adults, and for patients suffering from respiratory diseases. The current manuscript sets up an agro-waste management platform by using paddy straw as a substrate for the production of nutritionally and medically rich oyster mushroom, Pleurotus florida (Pf) and which is further used in the green synthesis of bimetallic (gold-platinum) Au-Pt nanoparticle. Yield performance and biological efficiency of Pf were calculated from the degraded paddy straw. The green synthesized Au-Pt NPs were structurally characterized by ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis), X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), and zeta potential analysis. The prepared NPs showed a face-centered cubic crystal structure, icosahedral shape with a mean particle size of 16 nm. Furthermore, we examined the cytotoxic activity of Au-Pt NPs using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and apoptosis by propidium iodide assay. We found that Au-Pt NPs exerted apoptotic activity on the human colon cancer cell line (HCT 116) in a dose-dependent manner from 12.5 to 200 μg/mL. Overall, our findings create a prototype and open a new door to synthesizing functional nanoparticle by using oyster mushroom as the substrate for paddy straw agro-waste management and the applicability of Pf in the synthesis of eco-friendly Au-Pt NPs. This is the first kind of approach that kills two birds with one stone."
"Correlations between Meteorological Indicators, Air Quality and the COVID-19 Pandemic in 12 Cities across China.","COVID-19 is a global pandemic. The purpose of this study is to explore correlations between the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and meteorological indicators from cities across China. We collected daily data of the cumulative number of infected, recovered and death cases, and the meteorological indicators including average temperature, wind speed, relative humidity, precipitation and air quality index (AQI) from 12 cities in China during the period of Jan 23 to Feb 22, 2020. Correlation tests were chosen for data analysis. The average temperature and AQI showed significant association with the mortality rate of COVID-19. The mortality rate was not correlated with wind speed, relative humidity or precipitation. Meanwhile, higher average temperatures and more precipitation were beneficial for the recovery rate of COVID-19, but the recovery rate was not correlated with wind speed, relative humidity or AQI. Our study provides a new basis for correlations between COVID-19, meteorological indicators and air quality index, which can help authorities to combat COVID-19."
"Differential expression profiling of transcripts of IDH1, CEA, Cyfra21-1, and TPA in stage IIIa non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of smokers and non-smokers cases with air quality index.","Smoking tobacco is the major hazard for lung cancer in Indian subcontinent especially men, compare to woman where, other important risk factors such as air pollutions are responsible. So, the aim of the study is to compare chronic smokers (CS) and non-smokers living in areas with air quality categorized as poor (AQI 201-300) or moderate (AQI 101-200). We measured the expression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) biomarkers;. IDH1, CEA, Cyfra21-1, and TPA through quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) and compared the levels of upregulation of the transcripts in stage IIIa NSCLC over control benign tissues among the smoking and AQI settings. Though the all biomarkers were significantly up-regulated in tumor tissues compared to control benign tissues, the fold change increase of IDH1 and CEA was highest in CS-poor/moderate AQI, followed by non-smokers-poor AQI and non-smokers moderate AQI. This indicates the aggressiveness and poor prognosis in CS living in either poor or moderate AQI areas. The level of Cyfra21-1 was lower in in the CS groups in comparison to non-smokers in the poor AQI area. This suggest higher Lung Squamous cell carcinoma histology in non-smokers living areas with poor AQI. Hence, we conclude that poor air quality can be as injurious for lung cancers as chronic smoking."
Characteristics of patients with endometrial hyperplasia under different air quality index conditions.,"Air pollution has been widely recognized to pose a threat to health. Urban outdoor air pollution was listed as the 14th biggest risk factor for global deaths in 2004 in the Global Health Risks report published by the World Health Organization in 2009. Many past studies have indicated that exposure to environmental contaminants promotes changes in the internal mechanisms of diseases, including the infection of various systems in the body, hormonal changes, and vascular proliferation. These changes may be related to the severity of endometrial hyperplasia. Therefore, this study used the air quality monitoring data of the Environmental Protection Administration (EPA) to examine the effects of air pollutant concentration on patients with endometrial hyperplasia. This population-based nationwide study used data for 2002-2013 from the National Health Insurance Research Database of Taiwan. Patients who developed endometrial hyperplasia before 2002 were excluded. In total, 14,883 patients with endometrial hyperplasia were tracked. The exposure levels and air quality index (AQI) values in this study were based on the taiwan air quality monitoring network data collected by the EPA from 2000 to 2013. The data were further divided into the good air quality group (AQI ≤ 50) and poor air quality group (AQI > 50). The study used linear regression model to estimate the correlation linking air pollutant concentration with endometrial hyperplasia. The results indicated that, in comparison to endometrial hyperplasia patients who were exposed to air with good quality, those exposed to air with poor quality had a higher average age (p < 0.001) and higher proportion of living in southern Taiwan (p < 0.001), as well as higher rates of diabetes (p < 0.001), hyperlipidemia (p < 0.001), hypertension, cerebrovascular diseases (p = 0.024), cerebral vascular accidents (p = 0.024), and chronic kidney disease (p < 0.001). The patients with endometrial hyperplasia in poor AQI area had severe comorbidity. Thus, attention must be paid to the improvement of air quality and the implementation of preventive measures against contaminants."
Amplification effect of haze on human exposure to halogenated flame retardants in atmospheric particulate matter and the corresponding mechanism.,"The health impact of haze is of great concern; however, few air quality studies have investigated trace pollutant contamination in the air. Size-segregated atmospheric particles (nine size fractions derived from PM"
[Particle Size Distribution and Human Health Risk Assessment of Heavy Metals in Atmospheric Particles from Beijing and Xinxiang During Summer].,"Under a condition of good air quality (AQI:55-90, PM"
Correlation Analysis of PM,"Air pollution and lung cancer are closely related. In 2013, the World Health Organization listed outdoor air pollution as carcinogenic and regarded it as the most widespread carcinogen that humans are currently exposed to. Here, grey correlation and data envelopment analysis methods are used to determine the pollution factors causing lung cancer among residents in Nanchang, China, and identify population segments which are more susceptible to air pollution. This study shows that particulate matter with particle sizes below 10 micron (PM"
Human health risk exposure with respect to particulate-bound polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons at mine fire-affected coal mining complex.,"Particulate-bound poly-aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are of great concern due to their mutagenicity and carcinogenicity effect on human health. In this context, identification, quantification and inhalation cancer risk (ICR) assessment due to PM"
SEER*Educate: Use of Abstracting Quality Index Scores to Monitor Improvement of All Employees.,"Integral parts of the Seattle-Puget Sound's Cancer Surveillance System registry's continuous improvement model include the incorporation of SEER*Educate into its training program for all staff and analyzing assessment results using the Abstracting Quality Index (AQI). The AQI offers a comprehensive measure of overall performance in SEER*Educate, which is a Web-based application used to personalize learning and diagnostically pinpoint each staff member's place on the AQI continuum. The assessment results are tallied from 6 abstracting standards within 2 domains: incidence reporting and coding accuracy. More than 100 data items are aligned to 1 or more of the 6 standards to build an aggregated score that is placed on a continuum for continuous improvement. The AQI score accurately identifies those individuals who have a good understanding of how to apply the 6 abstracting standards to reliably generate high quality abstracts."
Guidelines for the use and interpretation of assays for monitoring autophagy (3rd edition).,
The National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry.,"The Anesthesia Quality Institute (AQI) was chartered in 2008 by the American Society of Anesthesiologists to develop the National Anesthesia Clinical Outcomes Registry (NACOR). In this Technical Communication, we will describe how data enter NACOR, how they are authenticated, and how they are analyzed and reported. NACOR accepts case-level administrative, clinical, and quality capture data from voluntarily participating anesthesia practices and health care facilities in the United States. All data are transmitted to the AQI in summary electronic files generated by billing, quality capture, and electronic health care record software, typically on a monthly basis. All data elements are mapped to fields in the NACOR schema in accordance with a publicly available data dictionary. Incoming data are loaded into NACOR by AQI technologists and are subject to both manual and automated review to identify systematically missing elements, miscoding, and inadvertent corruption. Data are deidentified in compliance with Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act regulations. The database server of AQI, which houses the NACOR database, is protected by 2 firewalls within the American Society of Anesthesiologists' network infrastructure; this system has not been breached. The NACOR Participant User File, a deidentified case-level dataset of information from NACOR, is available to researchers at participating institutions. NACOR architecture and the nature of the Participant User File include both strengths and weaknesses."
Evaluation of fine particles in surgical smoke from an urologist's operating room by time and by distance.,"Electrocautery, harmonic scalpel tissue dissection and other surgical techniques can generate surgical smoke with high proportion of 'fine particles' (PM(2.5)) <2.5 μm, which is known to have adverse effects on human health. The high-risk zone for PM(2.5) during surgeries by time and by distance has not been well evaluated. The study included open superficial, open abdominal, open pelvic, laparoscopic and transurethral urology surgeries, five of each. A particle counter was placed at three different distances from the incision site, and the real-time PM(2.5) concentration was displayed after each cut. Air Quality Index (AQI) revised by the US Environmental Protection Agency and the calculated inhalation dose were used to evaluate the severity of PM(2.5). In superficial, abdominal and pelvic surgeries, the peak PM(2.5) concentration may reach 245.7, 149.4 and 165.1 μg/m(3) 3-6 s after a single cut 40 cm from the incision site. By the time, AQI usually turns to 'unhealthy' or 'very unhealthy.' In laparoscopic surgeries, 40 cm from the trocar, the air quality reached 'hazardous' in 3 s after opening of the trocar valve with a peak concentration of 517.5 μg/m(3). In transurethral surgeries, the AQI 40 cm away from the resectoscope is generally at moderate level. In each surgery, the chief surgeon may inhale most of the PM(2.5), while the assistant will inhale less than half the dose, and the scrub nurse may inhale nearly none. The use of wall suction may induce a 48-65 % decrease in fine particle inhalation. During surgeries, the concentration of PM(2.5) could reach a very unhealthy status, especially for the chief surgeon who is the nearest to the incision site. Surgical smoke evacuation in the first few seconds of a cut is essential; however, using smoke evacuators such as a wall suction alone may not be enough."
Assessment of Effects of Air Pollution on Daily Outpatient Visits using the Air Quality Index.,"The air quality index (AQI) is widely used to characterize the quality of ambient air. Chinese cities officially report the AQI on a daily basis. To assess the possible effects of air pollution on daily outpatient visits, we examined the association between AQI and the daily outpatient count. Daily data on outpatient visits to each clinical department were collected from the Z county hospital of Datong City, China. The collection period was between 5 April and 30 June, 2012. Daily AQI data and meteorological information were simultaneously recorded. We compared outpatient counts between the index days and comparison days, and calculated Pearson's product moment correlation coefficient between outpatient counts and AQI levels. The average AQI level for index days was significantly higher than that for comparison days. No significant difference was observed in temperature or relative humidity between index days and comparison days. The outpatient counts for pediatrics were significantly higher on index days than on comparison days, and no significant difference was noted in other clinical departments. The outpatient counts for pediatrics positively correlated with the AQI level, and no correlation was noted in other clinical departments. The present study assessed the association between daily outpatient visits and air pollution using AQI. The results obtained suggest that air pollution could increase the outpatient count for pediatrics."
"Influence of hazy weather on patient presentation with respiratory diseases in Beijing, China.","Chronic respiratory disease is an important factor for development of lung cancer. To explore the influence of hazy weather on respiratory diseases and its variation the present study was conducted. Data from air pollution surveillance from January to October 2014 and case records of visiting patients in the 263th Hospital of Chinese PLA in the corresponding period were collected to analyze the relevance between different degrees of air pollution (hazy weather) and the number of visiting patients in Department of Respiratory Disease. Air quality index (AQI) of hazy weather had significantly positive association with particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5) and the number of patients with 5 kinds of respiratory diseases i and different pollutants had distinct influences on various respiratory diseases. The degree of air pollution in Beijing City is in close association with the number of patients with respiratory diseases, in which PM2.5 and SO2 are in more significant influences on all respiratory diseases. This could have essential implications for lung cancer development in China."
"Uncontrolled combustion of shredded tires in a landfill -Part 2: Population exposure, public health response, and an air quality index for urban fires.","The Iowa City Landfill in eastern Iowa, United States, experienced a fire lasting 18 days in 2012, in which a drainage layer of over 1 million shredded tires burned, generating smoke that impacted the surrounding metropolitan area of 130,000 people. This emergency required air monitoring, risk assessment, dispersion modeling, and public notification. This paper quantifies the impact of the fire on local air quality and proposes a monitoring approach and an Air Quality Index (AQI) for use in future tire fires and other urban fires. Individual fire pollutants are ranked for acute and cancer relative risks using hazard ratios, with the highest acute hazard ratios attributed to SO"
Geographic distribution and epidemiology of lung cancer during 2011 in Zhejiang province of China.,"To explore etiology for providing scientific clues for the prevention of lung cancer. Data for lung cancer incidence and meteorological geographic factors from 25 counties in Zhejiang province of China during 2011 were studied. Stepwise multiple regression and correlation analysis were performed to analyze the geographic distribution and epidemiology of lung cancer. 8,291 new cases (5,998 in males and 2,293 females) of lung cancer during 2011 in Zhejiang province were reported in the 25 studied counties. Reported and standardized incidence rates for lung cancer were 58.0 and 47.0 per 100,000 population, respectively. The incidence of lung cancer increased with age. Geographic distribution analysis shows that the standardized incidence rates of lung cancer in northeastern Zhejiang province were higher than in the southwestern part, such as in Nanhu, Fuyang, Wuxing and Yuyao counties, where the rates were more than 50 per 100,000 population. In the southwestern Zhejiang province, for instance, in Yueqing, Xianju and Jiande counties, the standardized incidence rates of lung cancer were lower than 37 per 100,000 population. Spearman correlation tests showed that forest coverage rate, air quality index (AQI), and annual precipitation level are associated with the incidence of lung cancer. Lung cancer in Zhejiang province shows obvious regional differences. High incidence appears associated with low forest coverage rate, poor air quality and low annual precipitation. Therefore, increasing the forest coverage rate and controlling air pollution may play an important role in lung cancer prevention."
Daily mortality and air pollution in Atlanta: two years of data from ARIES.,"Associations between daily mortality and air pollution were investigated in Fulton and DeKalb Counties, Georgia, for the 2-yr period beginning in August 1998, as part of the Aerosol Research and Inhalation Epidemiological Study (ARIES). Mortality data were obtained directly from county offices of vital records. Air quality data were obtained from a dedicated research site in central Atlanta; 15 separate air quality indicators (AQIs) were selected from the 70 particulate and gaseous air quality parameters archived in the ARIES ambient air quality database. Daily meteorological parameters, comprising 24-h average temperatures and dewpoints, were obtained from Atlanta's Hartsfield International Airport. Effects were estimated using Poisson regression with daily deaths as the response variable and time, meteorology, AQI, and days of the week as predictor variables. AQI variables entered the model in a linear fashion, while all other continuous predictor variables were smoothed via natural cubic splines using the generalized linear model (GLM) framework in S-PLUS. Knots were spaced either quarterly, monthly, or biweekly for temporal smoothing. A default model using monthly knots and AQIs averaged for lags 0 and 1 was postulated, with other models considered in sensitivity analyses. Lags up to 5 days were considered, and multipollutant models were evaluated, taking care to avoid overlapping (and thus collinear) AQIs. For this reason, PM(2.5) was partitioned into its three major constituents: SO(2-)(4), carbon (EC + 1.4 OC), and the remainder; sulfate was assumed to be (NH(4))(2)SO(4) for this purpose. Initial AQI screening was based on all-cause (ICD-9 codes <800) mortality for those aged 65 and over. For the (apparently) most important pollutants--PM(2.5) and its 3 major constituents, coarse PM mass [CM], 1-h maximum CO, 8-h maximum O(3)--we investigated 15 mortality categories in detail. (The 15 categories result from three age groups [all ages, <65, 65+] and five cause-of-death groups [all disease causes, cardiovascular, respiratory, cancer, and other ""remainder"" disease causes]). The GLM model outputs that were considered included mean AQI effects and their standard errors, and two indicators of relative model performance (deviance and deviance adjusted for the number of observations and model parameters). The latter indicator was considered to account for variations in the number of observations created by varying amounts of missing AQI data, which were not imputed. The single-AQI screening regressions on all-cause 65+ mortality show that CO, NO(2), PM(2.5), CM, SO(2), and O(3), followed by EC and OC, consistently have the best model fits, after adjusting for the number of observations. Their relative rankings, however, vary according to the smoothing knots used, and there is no correspondence between mean AQI effect and overall model fit.(Other regression runs often show that the best model fits are obtained with no AQI in the model.) There is no correspondence between mean AQI effect and statistical significance or between mean effect and serial correlation. There is a highly significant (.001 level) relationship between overall model fit and serial correlation; the best fitting models have the most frequent knot spacing and the most negative serial correlation. The regression analyses by cause of death find elderly circulatory deaths to be consistently associated with CO for all models."
Metabolism of 4'-(9-acridinylamino)methanesulfon-m-anisidide by rat liver microsomes.,"4'-(9-Acridinylamino)methanesulfon-m-anisidide (m-AMSA) is metabolized by a hepatic microsomal enzyme system composed of rat liver microsomes, a reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-generating system, cytosolic protein (or glutathione), and oxygen. Omission of any one of the components, or incubation under an atmosphere of CO or N2, results in inhibition of the reaction. Also, the addition of inhibitors of microsomal metabolism (alpha-naphthoflavone, metyrapone, or SKF 525-A) decreases m-AMSA metabolism. Metabolism of m-AMSA is more rapid with microsomes prepared from rats pretreated with phenobarbital or 3-methylcholanthrene. Two microsomal oxidation products of m-AMSA were isolated and identified as N1'-methanesulfonyl-N4'-(9-acridinyl)-3'-methoxy-2',5'-cyclohex adiene-1', 4'-dimine (m-AQDI) and 3'-methoxy-4'-(9-acridinylamino-2',5'-cyclohexadien-1'-one (m-AQI). m-AQDI reacts with glutathione to form a product previously identified in in vivo studies as the principal rat biliary metabolite and which is not cytotoxic to cultured L1210 cells. Thus, the end result of the microsomal metabolism of m-AMSA is detoxification. However, the two primary oxidation products (m-AQDI and m-AQI) are considerably more cytotoxic to L1210 cells in vitro than is m-AMSA. The concentration of m-AMSA required to produce a 5-log kill is 1.0 microgram/ml compared to 0.01 microgram/ml for m-AQDI and m-AQI. These results indicate that m-AMSA might undergo bioactivation to form the active cytotoxic species of the drug."
